McGraw Hill audio presents crucial
conversations tools for talking when
Stakes are high written by Carrie
Patterson Joseph grenny Ron McMillan and
Al switzler read by Anna
Fields forward by Steven R
cvy this is a breakthrough book that is
exactly how I saw it when I first read
the manuscript it so resonated with the
importance power and timeliness of its
message that I even suggested to the
authors that they title it breakthrough
conversations but as I read deeper
listened to the tapes and experienced
the Insight born of years of experience
with this material I came to understand
why it is titled crucial
conversations from my own work with
organizations including families and
from my own experience I have come to
see that there are a few defining
moments in our lives and careers that
make all the difference many of these
defining moments come from crucial or
breakthrough conversations ations with
important people in emotionally charged
situations where the decisions made take
us down one of several roads Each of
which leads to an entirely different
destination I can see the wisdom in the
assertion of the great historian Arnold
Toby who said that you can pretty well
summarize all of history not only of
society but of Institutions and of
people in four words nothing Fails Like
success in other words when a challenge
in life is met by a response that is
equal to it you have success but when
the challenge moves to a higher level
the old once successful response no
longer works it fails thus nothing Fails
Like
success the challenge has noticeably
changed for our lives our families and
our organizations just as the world is
changing at frightening speed and has
become increasingly and profoundly
interdependent with marvelous and
dangerous Technologies so too have the
stresses and pressures we all experience
exponentially
increased this charged atmosphere makes
it all the more imperative that we
nourish our relationships and develop
tools skills and enhanced capacity to
find new and better solutions to our
problems these new or better Solutions
will not represent my way or your way
they will represent our way in short the
solutions must be synergistic meaning
that the whole is greater than the sum
of the parts such Synergy May manifest
itself in a better decision a better
relation ship a better decisionmaking
process increased commitment to
implement decisions made or a
combination of two or more of these what
you learn is that crucial conversations
transform people and relationships they
are anything but transacted they create
an entirely new level of bonding they
produce what Buddhism calls the middle
way not a compromise between two
opposites on a straight line Continuum
but a higher middle way like the Apex of
a
triangle because two or more people have
created something new from genuine
dialogue bonding takes place just like
the bonding that takes place in family
or marriage when a new child is created
when you produce something with another
person that is truly creative it's one
of the most powerful forms of bonding
there is in fact the bonding is so
strong that you simply would not be
disloyal in his or her absence even if
there were social pressure to join
others in bad mouthing
the sequential development of the
subject matter in this book is brilliant
it moves you from understanding the
superal power of dialogue to clarifying
what you really want to have happen and
focusing on what actually is happening
to creating conditions of safety to
using self-awareness and self- knowledge
and finally it moves you to learning how
to achieve such a level of mutual
understanding and creative Synergy that
people are emotionally connected to the
conclusions reached and are emot
tionally willing and committed to
effectively implementing them in short
you move from creating the right mind
and heart set to developing and
utilizing the right skill
set in spite of the fact that I have
spent many years writing and teaching
similar ideas I found myself being
deeply influenced motivated and even
inspired by this material learning new
ideas going deeper into Old ideas seeing
new applications and broadening my
understanding I've also learned how
these new tech techniques skills and
tools work together in enabling crucial
conversations that truly create a break
with the mediocrity or mistakes of the
past most breakthroughs in life truly
are break
widths when I first put my hands on this
book I was delighted to see that dear
friends and colleagues had drawn on
their entire lives and professional
experiences to not only address a
tremendously important topic but also to
do it in a way that is so accessible so
fun so full of humor and illustration so
full of Common Sense and
practicality they show how to
effectively blend and use both
intellectual IQ and emotional
intelligence EQ to enable crucial
conversations I remember one of the
authors having a crucial conversation
with his professor in college the
professor felt that this student was
neither paying the price in class nor
living up to his potential this student
my friend listened carefully restated
the professor's concern expressed
appreciation for the professor's
affirmation of his potential and then
smilingly and calmly said my focus is on
other priorities and the class is just
not that important to me at this time I
hope you can understand the teacher was
taken aback but then started to listen a
dialogue took place new understanding
was achieved and the bonding was
deepened I know these authors to be
outstanding individuals and remarkable
teachers and consultants and have even
seen them work their magic and training
seminars but I didn't know if they could
take this complex topic and fit it into
a book they did I encourage you to
really dig into this material to pause
and think deeply about each part and how
the parts are sequenced then apply what
you've learned go back to the book again
learn some more and apply your new
learnings remember to know and not to do
is really not to
know chapter
1 what's a crucial conversation and who
cares when people first hear the term
crucial conversation many conjure up
images of presidents Emperors and prime
ministers seated around a massive table
while they debate the future of the
world although it's true that such
discussions have a wide sweeping and
lasting impact they're not the kind we
have in mind the crucial conversations
we're referring to in the title of this
book are interactions that happen to
everyone they're the day-to-day
conversations that affect your life now
what makes one of your conversations
crucial as opposed to plain vanilla
first opinions vary for example you're
talking with your boss about a possible
promotion she thinks you're not ready
you think you are second Stakes are high
you're in a meeting with four co-workers
and you're trying to pick a new
marketing strategy you've got to do
something different or your company
isn't going to hit its annual
goals third emotions run strong you're
in the middle of a casual discussion
with your spouse and he or she brings up
an ugly incident that took place at
yesterday's neighborhood block party
apparently not only did you flirt with
someone at the party but according to
your spouse you were practically making
out you don't remember flirting you
simply remember being polite and
friendly your spouse walks off in a
huff and speaking of the block party at
one point you're making small talk with
your somewhat crotchety and always
colorful neighbor about his shrinking
kidneys when he says speaking of the new
fence You're Building from that moment
on you end up in a heated debate over
placing the new fence 3 in one way or
the other 3 in he finishes by
threatening you with a lawsuit and you
punctuate your points by mentioning that
he's not completely aware of the
difference between his hind part and his
elbow emotions run really
strong what makes each of these
conversations crucial and not simply
challenging frustrating frightening or
annoying is that the results could have
a huge impact on the quality of your
life in each case some element of your
daily routine could be forever altered
For Better or Worse clearly a promotion
could make a big difference your
company's success affects you and
everyone you work with your relationship
with your spouse influences every aspect
of your life even something as trivial
as a debate over a property line affects
how you get along with your neighbor if
you handle even a seemingly
insignificant conversation poorly you
establish a pattern of behavior that
shows up in all of your crucial
conversations by definition Cru crucial
conversations are about tough issues
unfortunately it's human nature to back
away from discussions We Fear will hurt
us or make things worse we're Masters at
avoiding these tough conversations
co-workers send email to each other when
they should walk down the hall and talk
turkey bosses leave voicemail in Li of
meeting with their direct reports family
members change the subject when an issue
gets too risky we the authors have a
friend who learned through a voicemail
message that his wife was divorcing him
weed all kinds of tactics to dodge
touchy issues but it doesn't have to be
this way if you know how to handle even
Master crucial conversations you can
step up to and effectively hold tough
conversations about virtually any
topic just because we're in the middle
of a crucial conversation or maybe
thinking about stepping up to one
doesn't mean that we're in trouble or
that we won't farewell in truth when we
Face crucial conversations we can do one
of three things we can avoid them we can
can face them and handle them poorly we
can face them and handle them well that
seems simple enough walk away from
crucial conversations and suffer the
consequences handle them poorly and
suffer the consequences or handle them
well I don't know you think to yourself
given the three choices I'll go with
handling them
well but do we handle them well when
talking turns tough do we pause take a
deep breath announce to our inner selves
uh-oh this discussion is crucial I'd
better pay close attention and then Trot
out our best behavior or when we're
anticipating a potentially dangerous
discussion do we step up to it rather
than Scamper
away sometimes sometimes we boldly step
up to Hot Topics monitor our behavior
and offer up our best work we mind our
PS and q's sometimes we're just flat out
good and then we have the rest of our
lives these are the moments when for
whatever reason we either anticipate a
crucial conversation or are in the
middle of one and we're at our absolute
worst we yell we withdraw we say things
we later regret when conversations
matter the most that is when
conversations move from casual to
crucial we're generally on our Worst
Behavior why is that we're designed
wrong when conversations turn from
routine to crucial we're often in
trouble that's because emotions don't
exactly prepare us to converse
effectively countless generations of
genetic shaping Drive humans to handle
crucial conversations with flying fists
and Fleet Feet not intelligent
persuasion and gentle attentiveness for
instance consider a typical crucial
conversation someone says something you
disagree with about a topic that matters
a great deal to you and the hairs on the
back of your neck stand up the hairs you
can handle unfortunately your body does
more two tiny organs seated neatly at
top your kidneys pump adrenaline into
your bloodstream you don't choose to do
this your adrenal glands do it and then
you have to live with it and that's not
all your brain then diverts blood from
activities it deems non-essential to
high priority tasks such as Hitting and
Running unfortunately as the large
muscles of the arms and legs get more
blood the higher level reasoning
sections of your brain get less as a
result you end up facing challenging
conversations with the same equipment
available to a rees's
monkey we're under pressure let's add
another Factor crucial conversations are
frequently spontaneous more often than
not they come out of nowhere and since
you're caught by surprise you're forced
to conduct an extraordinarily complex
human interaction in real time no books
no coaches and certainly no short breaks
while a team of therapists runs to your
Aid and pumps you full of nifty ideas
what do you have to work with the issue
at hand the other person and a brain
that's preparing to fight or take flight
it's little wonder that we often say and
do things that make perfect sense in the
moment but later on seem well stupid
what was I thinking you wonder the truth
is you were realtime multitasking with a
brain that was working another job
you're lucky you didn't suffer a
stroke we're stumped now let's throw in
one more complication you don't know
where to start you're making this up as
you go along because you haven't often
seen real life models of effective
communication skills let's say that you
actually planned for a tough
conversation maybe you've even mentally
rehearsed you feel prepared and you're
as cool as a cucumber will you succeed
not necessarily you can still screw up
because practice doesn't make perfect
perfect practice makes
perfect this means that first you have
to know what to practice sometimes you
don't after all you may have never
actually seen how a certain problem is
best handled you may have seen what not
to do as modeled by a host of friends
colleagues and yes even your parent
parents in fact you may have sworn time
and again not to act the same way left
with no healthy models you're now more
or less stumped so what do you do you do
what most people do you wing it you
piece together the words create a
certain mood and otherwise make up what
you think will work all the while
multi-processing with a half- starved
brain it's little wonder that when it
matters the most we're often at our
Worst
Behavior we act in self-defeating
ways in our doped up dumbed down state
the strategies we choose for dealing
with our crucial conversations are
perfectly designed to keep us from what
we actually want we're our own worst
enemies and we don't even realize it
here's how this works let's say that
your significant other has been paying
less and less attention to you you
realize he or she has a busy job but you
still would like more time together you
drop a few hints about the issue but
your loved one doesn't handle it well
you decide not to put on added pressure
so you clam up of of course since you're
not all that happy with the arrangement
your displeasure now comes out through
an occasional sarcastic remark another
late night huh do you really need all
the money in the
world unfortunately and here's where the
problem becomes self-defeating the more
you snip and snap the less your loved
one wants to be around you so your
significant other spends even less time
with you you become even more upset and
the spiral continues your behavior is
now actually creating the very thing you
didn't want in the first place you're
caught in an unhealthy self-defeating
Loop or consider what's happening with
your roommate Terry who wears your and
your other two roommates clothes without
asking and he's proud of it in fact one
day while walking out the door he glibly
announced that he was wearing something
from each of your closets you could see
Taylor's pants Scott's shirt and yes
even Chris's new matching shoes and
socks
Ensemble what of yours could he possibly
be wearing
oo your response quite naturally has
been to bad mouth Terry behind his back
that is until one day when he overheard
you belittling him to a friend and now
you're so embarrassed that you avoid
being around him now when you're out of
the apartment he wears your clothes eats
your food and uses your computer out of
spite let's try another example you
share a cubicle with a fourstar slob and
you're a bit of a neat freak in Odd
Couple parlaments you're Felix and he's
Oscar your coworker has left you notes
written in grease pencil on your file
cabinet in catsup on the back of a
french fry bag and in permanent marker
on your desk blotter you in contrast
leave him typed Post-it notes
typed at first you sort of tolerated
each other then you began to get on each
other's nerves you started nagging him
about cleaning up he started nagging you
about your nagging now you're beginning
to react to each other every time you
nag he becomes upset and well let's say
that he doesn't exactly clean up every
time he calls you you an anal retentive
Nanny you vow not to give in to his vile
and filthy ways what has come from all
this bickering now you're neater than
ever and your cubical partner's half of
the work area is about to be condemned
by the health department you're caught
in a self-defeating Loop the more the
two of you push each other the more you
create the very behaviors you both
despise some common crucial
conversations in each of these examples
of unhealthy self-perpetuation the
stakes were moderate to high opinions
varied and emotions ran strong actually
to be honest in a couple of the examples
the stakes were fairly low at first but
with time and growing emotions the
relationship eventually turned sour and
quality of life suffered making the
risks High these examples of course are
merely the tip of an enormous and ugly
Iceberg of problems stemming from
crucial conversations that either have
been avoided or have gone wrong other
topics that could easily lead to
disaster include ending a relationship
talking to a co-worker who behaves
offensively or makes suggestive comments
asking a friend to repay a loan giving
the boss feedback about her behavior
approaching a boss who is breaking his
own safety or quality policies
critiquing a colleague's work asking a
roommate to move out resolving custody
or visitation issues with an ex-spouse
dealing with a rebellious teen talking
to a team member who isn't keeping
commitments
discussing problems with sexual intimacy
confronting a loved one about a
substance abuse problem talking to a
colleague who is hoarding information or
resources giving an unfavorable
performance review asking in-laws to
quit
interfering talking to a coworker about
a personal hygiene
problem could the ability to master
crucial conversations help your career
absolutely 25 years of research with
20,000 people and hundreds of
organizations has taught us that
individuals who are the most influential
who can get things done and at the same
time build on relationships are those
who Master their crucial conversations
for instance High performers know how to
stand up to the boss without committing
career suicide we've all seen people
hurt their careers over tough issues you
may have done it yourself fed up with a
lengthy and unhealthy pattern of
behavior you finally speak out but a bit
too abruptly oops or maybe an issue
becomes so hot that as your peers twitch
and fidget themselves into a quivering
mass of potential stroke victims you
decide to say something it's not a
pretty discussion but somebody has to
have the guts to keep the boss from
doing something stupid
gulp as it turns out you don't have to
choose between being honest and being
effective you don't have to choose
between cander and your career people
who routinely hold crucial conversations
and hold them well are able to express
controversial and and even risky
opinions in a way that gets heard their
bosses peers and direct reports listen
without becoming defensive or angry what
about your career are there crucial
conversations that you're not holding or
not holding well is this undermining
your influence and more importantly
would your career take a step forward if
you could improve how you're dealing
with these
conversations okay so individual careers
May sink or swim based on crucial
conversations but how about
organizations surely a soft and gushy
Factor such as how you talk to one
another doesn't have an impact on the
not so soft and gushy bottom line for 25
years we the authors explored this very
issue we and hundreds of others searched
for keys to organizational
success most of us studying The elusive
topic figured that something as large as
a company's overall success would depend
on something as large as a company's
strategy structure or systems after all
organizations that maintain best in
class productivity rely on elegant
Performance Management Systems
widespread productivity couldn't result
from anything less could it we weren't
alone in our thinking every organization
that attempted to bring about
improvements at least the companies we
had heard of began by revamping their
Performance Management Systems then we
actually studied those who had invested
heavily in spiffy new Performance
Management Systems it turns out that we
were dead wrong changing structures and
systems alone did little to improve per
performance for example one study of 500
stunningly productive organizations
revealed that Peak Performance had
absolutely nothing to do with forms
procedures and policies that drive
Performance
Management in fact half of the High
Flyers had almost no formal Performance
Management
processes what's behind their
success it all comes down to how people
handle crucial conversations within
high- performing companies when
employees fail to deliver on their
promises
colleagues willingly and effectively
step in to discuss the problem in the
worst companies po performers are first
ignored and then transferred in good
companies bosses eventually deal with
problems in the best companies everyone
holds everyone else accountable
regardless of level or position the path
to High productivity passes not through
a static system but through face-to-face
conversations at all
levels consider the impact crucial
conversations can have on your
relationships could failed crucial
conversations lead to failed
relationships as it turns out when you
ask the average person what causes
couples to break up he or she usually
suggests that it's due to differences of
opinion you know people have different
theories about how to manage their
finances spice up their love lives or
rear their children in truth everyone
argues about important issues but not
everyone splits up it's how you argue
that matters for example when Clifford
notarius and Howard Markman two noted
marriage Scholars examined couples in
the throws of heated discussions they
learned that people fall into three
categories those who digress into
threats and name calling those who
revert to silent fuming and those who
speak openly honestly and effectively
after watching dozens of couples the two
Scholars predicted relationship outcomes
and tracked their research subjects
relationships for the next 10 years sure
enough they had predicted nearly 90% of
the divorces that occurred over time
couples who found a way to State their
opinions about high stakes controversial
and emotional issues honestly and
respectfully remained together those who
didn't split up now what about you think
of your own important relationships are
there a few crucial conversations that
you're currently avoiding or handling
poorly do you walk away from some issues
only to come charging back into others
do you hold in ugly opinions only to
have them tumble out as sarcastic
remarks or cheap shots how about your
significant other or family members are
they constantly toggling from seething
silence to costly but subtle attacks
when it matters the most after all these
are your cherished loved ones are you on
your worst behavior if so you definitely
have something to gain by learning more
about how to handle crucial
conversations summary when Stakes are
high opinions vary and emotions start to
run strong casual conversations become
crucial ironically the more crucial the
conversation the less likely we are to
handle it well the consequences of
either avoiding or fouling up crucial
conversations can be severe when we fail
a crucial conversation every aspect of
Our Lives can be affected from our
careers to our communities to our
relationships to our personal health as
we learn how to step up to crucial
conversations and handle them well with
one set of skills we can influence
virtually every domain of Our Lives
lives what is this all-important skill
set what do people who sail through
crucial conversations actually do more
importantly can we do it
too chapter
2 mastering crucial conversations the
power of
dialogue we the authors didn't always
spend our time noodling over crucial
conversations in fact we started our
Research into organizational and
personal Excellence by studying a
slightly different topic we figured that
if we could learn why certain people
were more effective than others then we
could learn exactly what they did clone
it and pass it on to others to find the
source of success we started at work we
asked people to identify who they
thought were their most effective
colleagues in fact over the past 25
years we've asked over 20,000 people to
identify the individuals in their
organizations who could really get
things done we wanted to find those who
were not just influential but who were
far more influential than the rest each
time as we compiled the names into a
list a pattern emerged some people were
named by one or two colleagues some
found their way onto the lists of five
or six people these were the good at
influence but not good enough to be
widely identified as top performers and
then there were the handful who were
named 30 or more times these were the
best the clear opinion leaders in their
areas some were managers and supervisors
many were
not one of the opinion leaders years we
became particularly interested in
meeting was named Kevin he was the only
one of eight vice presidents in his
company to be identified as exceedingly
influential we wanted to know why so we
watched him at work at first Kevin
didn't do anything remarkable in truth
he looked like every other VP he
answered his phone talked to his direct
reports and continued about his pleasant
but routine
routine after trailing Kevin for almost
a week we began to wonder if he really
did act in ways that set him apart from
others or if his influence was simply a
matter of popularity and then we
followed Kevin into a meeting Kevin his
peers and their boss were deciding on a
new location for their offices would
they move across town across the state
or across the country the first two
execs presented their arguments for
their top choices and as expected their
points were greeted by penetrating
questions from the full team no vague
claim went on clarified no unsupported
reasoning
unquestioned then Chris the CEO pitched
his preference one that was both
unpopular and potentially disastrous
however when people tried to disagree or
push back on Chris he responded poorly
since he was the big boss he didn't
exactly have to brow be people to get
what he wanted instead he became
slightly defensive first he raised an
eyebrow then he raised his finger
finally he raised his voice just a
little it wasn't long until people
stopped questioning him and Chris's
inadequate proposal was quietly accepted
well almost that's when Kevin spoke up
his words were simple enough something
like hey Chris can I check something out
with you the reaction was stunning
everyone in the room stopped breathing
but Kevin ignored the apparent Terror of
his colleagues and plunged on ahead in
the next few minutes he in essence told
the CEO that he appeared to be violating
his own decision-making guidelines he
was subtly using his power to move the
new offices to his
hometown Kevin continued to explain what
he saw happening and when he finished
the first crucial minutes of this
delicate exchange Chris was quiet for a
moment then he nodded his
head you're absolutely right he finally
concluded I've been trying to force my
opinion on you let's back up and try
again this was a crucial conversation
and Kevin played no games whatsoever he
didn't resort to silence like his
colleagues nor did he try to force his
arguments on others as a result the team
chose a far more reasonable location and
Kevin's boss appreciated his cander
when Kevin was done one of his peers
turned to us and said did you see how he
did that if you want to know how he gets
things done figure out what he just did
so we did in fact we spent the next 25
years discovering what Kevin and people
like him
do what typically set them apart from
the rest of the pack was their ability
to deal with crucial conversations when
talking turned tough and Stakes were
high they excelled but how Kevin wasn't
that different he did step up to a tough
issue and helped the team make a better
choice but what exactly did he do did he
possess learnable skills or was what he
did more magical than manageable to
answer these questions first let's
explore what Kevin was able to achieve
this will help us see where we're trying
to go then we'll examine the dialogue
tools effective communicators routinely
use and learn to apply them to our own
crucial
conversations if you've seen the movie
City Slickers you may remember a scene
where the Crusty character curly
explains that if you want to succeed in
life you have to do one thing then in
typical Hollywood fashion he explains
that he's not about to tell you what
that one thing is you have to figure it
out yourself we won't pull a curly we'll
reveal the one thing when it comes to
risky controversial and emotional
conversations skilled people find a way
to get all relevant information from
themselves and others out into the open
that's it at the core of every
successful conversation lies the free
flow of relevant information people
openly and honestly Express their
opinions share their feelings and
articulate their theories they willingly
and capably share their views even when
their ideas are controversial or
unpopular it's the one thing and it's
precisely what Kevin and the other
extremely effective communicators we
studied were routinely able to achieve
now to put a label on this spectacular
Talent it's called
dialogue here's how dialogue Works
despite the fact that we've shared the
one thing we're still left with two
questions first how does this free flow
of meaning lead to success second what
can you do to encourage meaning to flow
freely we'll explain the relationship
between the free flow of meaning and
success right here and now the second
question what you must do to stay in
dialogue no matter the circumstances
takes the rest of the book each of us
enters conversations with our own
opinions feelings theories and
experiences about the topic at hand this
unique combination of thoughts and
feelings makes up our personal pool of
meaning this pool not only informs us
but also propels our every action when
two or more of US enter crucial
conversations by definition we don't
share the same pool our opinions differ
I believe one thing you another I have
one history you another people who are
skilled at dialogue do their best to
make it safe for everyone to add their
meaning to the shared pool even ideas
that at first glance appear
controversial wrong or at odds with
their own beliefs now obviously they
don't agree with every idea they simply
do their best to ensure that all ideas
find their way into the open as the pool
of shared meaning grows it helps people
in two ways first as individuals are
exposed to more accurate and relevant
information they make better choices in
a very real sense the pool of shared
meaning is a measure of a group's IQ the
larger the shared pool the smarter the
decisions and even though many people
may be involved in a choice when people
openly and freely share ideas The
increased time investment is more than
offset by the quality of the decision on
the other hand we've all seen what
happens when the shared pool is
dangerously shallow when people
purposefully withhold meaning from one
another individually smart people can do
collectively stupid things for example a
client of ours shared the following
story
a woman checked into the hospital to
have a tonsilectomy and the surgical
team erroneously removed a portion of
her foot how could this tragedy happen
in fact why is it that 98,000 hospital
deaths each year stem from human error
in part because many Health Care
Professionals are afraid to speak their
minds in this case no less than seven
people wondered why the surgeon was
working on the foot but said nothing
meaning didn't freely flow because
people were afraid to speak up of course
hospitals don't have a monopoly on fear
in every instance where bosses are smart
highly paid confident and outspoken I.E
most of the world people tend to hold
back their opinions rather than risk
angering someone in a position of power
on the other hand when people feel
comfortable speaking up and meaning does
flow freely the shared pool can
dramatically increase a group's ability
to make better decisions consider what
happened to Kevin's group as everyone on
on the team began to explain his or her
opinion people formed a more clear and
complete picture of the circumstances as
they began to understand the wise and
wherefores of different proposals they
built off one another eventually as one
idea led to the next and then to the
next they came up with an alternative
that no one had originally thought of
and that all wholeheartedly supported as
a result of the free flow of meaning the
whole final Choice was truly greater
than the sum of the original parts
in short the pool of shared meaning is
the birthplace of synergy not only does
a shared pool help individuals make
better choices but since the meaning is
shared people willingly act on whatever
decisions they make as people sit
through an open discussion where ideas
are shared they take part in the free
flow of meaning eventually they
understand why the shared solution is
the best solution and they're committed
to act for example Kevin and the other
VPS didn't buy into their final Choice
simply because they were involved they
bought in because they
understood conversely when people aren't
involved when they sit back quietly
during touchy conversations they're
rarely committed to the final decision
since their ideas remain in their heads
and their opinions never make it into
the pool they end up quietly criticizing
and passively resisting worse still when
others force their ideas into the pool
people have a harder time accepting the
information they may say they're on
board but then walk away and follow
through half-heartedly to quotee Samuel
Butler he that complies against his will
is of his own opinion
still the time you spend upfront
establishing a shared pool of meaning is
more than paid for by faster more
committed action later on for example if
Kevin and the other leaders had not been
committed to their relocation decision
terrible consequences would have
followed some people would have agreed
to move others would have dragged their
feet some would have held heated
discussions in the hallways others would
have said nothing and then quietly
fought the plan more likely than not the
team would have been forced to meet
again discuss again and decide again
since only one person favored the
decision and the decision affected
everyone now don't get us wrong we're
not suggesting that every decision be
made by consensus or that the boss
shouldn't take part in or even make the
final choice we're simply suggesting
that whatever the decision-making method
the greater the shared meaning in the
pool the better the choice whoever makes
it every every time we find ourselves
arguing debating running away or
otherwise acting in an ineffective way
it's because we don't know how to share
meaning instead of engaging in healthy
dialogue we play Silly and costly games
for instance sometimes we move to
silence we play salute and stay mute
that is we don't confront people in
positions of Authority or at home we may
play freeze your lover with this
tortured Technique we give loved ones
the cold shoulder in order to get them
to treat us better what's the logic in
that that sometimes we rely on hints
sarcasm innuendo and looks of disgust to
make our points we play the Martyr and
then Pretend We're actually trying to
help afraid to confront an individual we
blame an entire team for a problem
hoping the message will hit the right
target whatever the technique the
overall method is the same we withhold
meaning from the pool we go to
silence on other occasions not knowing
how to stay in dialogue we rely on
violence and anything from subtle
manipulation to verbal attacks we act
like we know everything hoping people
will believe our arguments we discredit
others hoping people won't believe their
arguments and then we use every manner
of force to get our way we borrow power
from the boss we hit people with biased
monologues the goal of course is always
the same to compel others to our point
of view now here's how the various
elements fit together when Stakes are
high opinions vary and emotions run
strong we're often at our our worst in
order to move to our best we have to
find a way to explain what is in each of
our personal pools of meaning especially
our high stakes sensitive and
controversial opinions feelings and
ideas and to get others to share their
pools we have to develop the tools that
make it safe for us to discuss these
issues and to come to a shared pool of
meaning and when we do our lives
change and now for the really good news
the skills required to master high
stakes interactions are quite easy to
spot and moderately easy to learn first
consider the fact that a well-handled
crucial conversation all but leaps out
at you in fact when you see someone
enter The Dangerous Waters of a high
stakes High emotion controversial
discussion and the person does a
particularly good job your natural
reaction is to step back in awe wow is
generally the first word out of your
mouth what starts as a doomed discussion
ends up with a healthy resolution it can
take your breath away more importantly
not only are dialogue skills easy to
spot but they're also fairly easy to
learn that's where we're going next
we've isolated and captured the skills
of the dialogue gifted through 25 years
of non-stop wow research first we
followed around Kevin and dozens like
him then when conversations turned
crucial we took detailed notes afterward
we compared our observations tested our
hypotheses and home our models until we
found the skills that consistently
explain the success of brilliant
communicators finally we combined our
philosophies theories models and skills
into a package of learnable tools tools
for talking when Stakes are high now
we're ready to share what we've learned
stay with us as we explore how to
transform crucial conversations from
frightening events into interactions
that yield success and results it's the
most important set of skills you'll ever
master
here's what we'll focus on in the
remainder of the book first we'll
explore the tools people use to help
create the conditions of dialogue the
focus is on how we think about problem
situations and what we do to prepare for
them as we work on ourselves watch for
problems examine our own thought
processes discover our own Styles and
then catch problems before they get out
of hand everyone benefits as you read on
you will learn how to create conditions
in yourself and others that make
dialogue the path of least
resistance next we'll examine the tools
for talking listening and acting
together this is what most people have
in mind when they think of crucial
conversations how do I express delicate
feedback how do I speak persuasively not
abrasively and how about listening or
better still what can we do to get
people to talk when they seem nervous
and how do we move from thought to
action as you read on you will learn the
key skills of talking listening and
acting together finally we'll tie all of
the theories and skills together by
providing both a model and an extended
example then to see if you can really do
what it takes we provide several
situations that would give most of us
fits even people who are gifted at
dialogue you will Master the tools for
talking when Stakes are
High chapter
three start with heart how to stay
focused on what you really
want it's time to turn to the how of
dialogue how do you encourage the flow
of meaning in the face of differing
opinions and strong emotions given the
average person's track record it can't
be all that easy in fact given most
people's long-standing habit of costly
behaviors it'll probably require a lot
of effort the truth is people can change
in fact thousands of people we the
authors have worked with over the past
decades have made lasting improvements
but it requires work you can't simply
drink a magic potion and walk walk away
renewed instead you'll need to take a
long hard look at yourself in fact this
is the first principle of dialogue start
with heart that is your own heart if you
can't get yourself right you'll have a
hard time getting dialogue right when
conversations become crucial you'll
resort to the forms of communication
that you've grown up with debate silent
treatment manipulation and so
on okay let's assume we need to work on
our own personal dialogue skills instead
of buying this book and then handing it
to a loved one or cooworker and saying
you'll love this especially the parts
that I've underlined for you we'll try
to figure out how we ourselves can
benefit but how where do we start how
can we stay clear of unhealthy
games although it's difficult to
describe the specific order of events in
an interaction as fluid as a crucial
conversation we do know one thing for
certain skilled people start with heart
that is they begin high-risk discussions
with the right motives and they stay
focused no matter what happens they
maintain this focus in two ways first
they're Steely eyed smart when it comes
to knowing what they want despite
constant invitations to slip away from
their goals they stick with them second
skilled people don't make suckers
choices either or choices unlike others
who justify their unhealthy Behavior by
explaining that they had no choice but
to fight or take flight the dialogue
smart believe that dialogue no matter
the circumstances is always an
option let's move to a situation you
might face you're speaking with someone
who completely disagrees with you on a
hot issue as you begin the discussion
start by examining your motives going in
ask yourself what you really want also
as the conversation unfolds and you find
yourself starting to say defer to the
boss or give your spouse the cold
shoulder pay attention to what's
happening to your objectives are you
starting to change your goal to save
face avoid embarrassing embarrassment
win be right or punish others here's the
tricky part our motives usually change
without any conscious thought on our
part when adrenaline does our thinking
for us our motives flow with the
chemical tide in order to move back to
motives that allow for dialogue you must
step away from the interaction and look
at yourself much like an
outsider ask yourself what am I doing
and if I had to guess what does it tell
me about my underlying motive as you
make an honest effort to discover your
motive you might conclude let's see I'm
pushing hard making the argument
stronger than I actually believe and
doing anything to win I've shifted from
trying to select a vacation location to
trying to win an
argument once you call into question the
shifting desires of your heart you can
make conscious choices to change them
what I really want is to genuinely try
to select a vacation spot we can all
enjoy rather than try to win people over
to my idea is put succinctly when you
name the game you can stop playing it
but how how do you recognize what has
happened to you stop playing games and
then influence your own motives stop and
ask yourself some questions that return
you to dialogue you can ask these
questions either when you find yourself
slipping out of dialogue or as reminders
when you prepare to step up to a crucial
conversation here are some great ones
what do I really want for myself what do
I really want for others
what do I really want for the
relationship once you've asked yourself
what you want add one more equally
telling question how would I behave if I
really wanted these
results find your bearings there are two
good reasons for asking these questions
first the answer to what we really want
helps us to locate our own North Star
despite the fact that we're being
tempted to take the wrong path by one
people who are trying to pick a fight
two thousands of years of genetic hard
wirring that brings our emotions to a
quick boil and three our deeply
ingrained habit of trying to win our
North Star returns us to our original
purpose what do I really want oh yeah I
guess it's not to make the other person
squirm or to PR in front of a crowd I
want people to freely and openly talk
about what it'll take to cut
costs take charge of your body the
second reason for asking what we really
want is no less important when we ask
ourselves what we really want we affect
our entire physiology as we introduce
complex and Abstract questions to our
mind the problem-solving part of our
brain recognizes that we are now dealing
with intricate social issues and not
physical threats when we present our
brain with a demanding question our body
sends Precious Blood to the parts of our
brain that help us think and away from
the parts of our body that help us take
flight or begin a fight asking question
questions about what we really want
serves two important purposes first it
reminds us of our goal second it juices
up our brain in a way that helps us keep
focused as we step up to a crucial
conversation fully intending to
stimulate the flow of meaning many of us
quickly change our original objectives
to much less healthy goals common but
not all that healthy objectives include
wanting to win seeking revenge and
hoping to remain safe
wanting to win this particular dialogue
killer sits at the top of many of our
lists Heaven only knows that we come by
this deadly passion naturally enough
half of the TV programs we watch make
Heroes out of people who win at sports
or game shows 10 minutes into
kindergarten we learned that if we want
to get the teachers attention we have to
spout the right answer that means we
have to beat our fellow students of the
same game this desire to win is built
into our very fiber before we're old
enough to know what's going on
unfortunately as we grow older most of
us don't realize that this desire to win
is continually driving us away from
healthy dialogue we start out with the
goal of resolving a problem but as soon
as someone raises the red flag of
inaccuracy or challenges our correctness
we switch purposes and a heartbeat first
we correct the facts we quibble over
details and point out flaws in the other
person's arguments you're wrong we're
not spending anywhere near $150,000 on
the furniture it's the redesign of the
office that's costing so much not the
furniture of course as others push back
trying to prove their points it's not
long until we change our goal from
correcting mistakes to
winning seeking
Revenge sometimes as our anger increases
we move from wanting to win the point to
wanting to harm the other person
eventually as emotions reach their Peak
our goal becomes completely perverted we
move so so far away from adding meaning
to the pool that now all we want is to
see others suffer I can't believe that
you're accusing me of squandering good
money on a perfectly fine office now if
nobody else has any intelligent
questions let's move on everyone
immediately clams up and looks at the
floor the silence is
deafening hoping to remain safe of
course we don't always fix mistakes
aggressively discredit others or
heartlessly try to make them suffer
sometimes we choose personal safety over
dialogue
rather than add to the pool of meaning
and possibly make waves along the way we
go to silence we're so uncomfortable
with the immediate conflict that we
accept the certainty of bad results to
avoid the possibility of uncomfortable
conversation we choose at least in our
minds peace over
conflict now let's add one more tool
that helps us focus on what we really
want we'll start with a story The
Faculty of Bowmont High School is
hashing out possible curriculum changes
in an after school meeting meeting
that's been going on for hours it's
finally the science Department's turn to
present Roy a chemistry teacher who's
been at Bowmont for 33 years considers
himself the Elder Statesman of the
school he's much more fond of War
Stories than he is of neutrons and
electrons but the administration kind of
turns a blind eye because the guise of
fixture at the principal's cue Royce
clears his throat and begins to Yammer
on incoherently about the similarities
between curriculum development and
battle preparations his Antics are so
embarrassing that the audience quietly
heaves their shoulders as they fuly try
to stifle their
laughter next it's Brent the new guys
turn a couple of weeks ago the principal
asked him to outline the science
Department's proposed curriculum changes
Brent met with his colleagues even Roy
gathered suggestions and came ready to
present as Brent begins Roy starts
demonstrating bayonet offensives with a
yard stick and Brent snaps slamming his
fist on the table he shouts am I the
only one who wonders why we even allow
this fossil to talk did he miss a pill
or
something a room full of stunned faces
turns toward Brent realizing that his
colleagues must think he's possessed
Brent utters those words we've all come
to hate hey don't look at me like that
I'm the only one around who has the guts
to speak the truth what a tactic Brent
slams Roy in public and then instead of
apologizing or maybe simply Fading Into
the Shadows he argues that what he just
did was somehow
Noble two ugly options this pernicious
strategy is particularly well suited for
keeping us off track it's known as a
sucker's choice in order to justify an
especially sorted Behavior we suggest
that we're caught between two
distasteful options either we can be
honest and attack our spouse or we can
be kind and withhold the truth either we
can disagree with the boss to help make
a better choice and get shot for it or
we can remain quiet starve the pool and
keep our job pick your poison
what makes these suckers choices is that
they're always set up as the only two
options available it's the worst of
either or thinking the person making the
choice never suggests there's a third
option that doesn't call for unhealthy
behavior for example maybe there's a way
to be honest and respectful perhaps we
can express our candid opinion to our
boss and be safe those offering up a
sucker's choice either don't think of a
third and healthy option in which case
it's an honest but tragic mistake or set
up the false dichotomy as a way of
justifying their unattractive actions
I'm sorry but I just had to destroy the
guy self image if I was going to keep my
Integrity it wasn't pretty but it was
the right thing to
do not only do sucker choices set us up
to take ineffective actions but they
close us down to change they present our
brain with problems easily solved with
restricted blood flow after all if we
are simply choosing between fight and
flight who needs much creative thought
then they also keep us stuck in
ineffective strategies by justifying our
attacking or retreating behaviors why
alter our behavior when we're the only
one Savvy enough to keep quiet stand up
to my boss what turnup wagon did you
just fall off tell my spouse that her
parental style is too controlling no way
I'll pay for
years in a similar vein why would you
ever change when you think you're the
only one around with an ounce of
Integrity somebody has to state the ugly
truth it's the only way I can look
myself in the mirror
in summary sucker choices are simplistic
trade-offs that keep us from thinking
creatively of ways to get to dialogue
and that justify our silly games so how
do we break away from perverted logic
that keeps us trapped in hurtful
Behavior the best at dialogue refuse
sucker choices by setting up new choices
they present themselves with tougher
questions questions that turn the either
or Choice into a search for the all
important and ever Elusive and
it is an endangered species you know
here's how this works first clarify what
you really want you've got a head start
if you've already started with heart if
you know what you want for yourself for
others and for the relationship then
you're in position to break out of the
sucker's choice what I want is for my
husband to be more reliable I'm tired of
being let down by him when he makes
commitments that I depend
on second clarify what you really don't
want this is the key to Fring the and
question think of what you are afraid
will happen to you if you back away from
your current strategy of trying to win
or stay safe what bad thing will happen
if you stop pushing so hard or if you
don't try to escape what horrible
outcome makes game playing an attractive
and sensible
option what I don't want is to have a
useless and heated conversation that
creates bad feelings and doesn't lead to
change third present your brain with a
more comp complex problem finally
combine the two into an and question
that forces you to search for more
creative and productive options than
silence and
violence how can I have a candid
conversation with my husband about being
more dependable and avoid creating bad
feelings or wasting our
time it's interesting to watch what
happens when people are presented with
and questions after being stuck with
sucker choices their faces become
reflective their eyes open Ider and they
begin to think with surprising
regularity when people are asked is it
possible that there's a way to
accomplish both they acknowledge that
there very well may
be when we the authors are in the middle
of an on-site workshop and we suggest
there are alternatives to sucker choices
someone invariably says maybe you can
speak honestly and still be heard in
other organizations but if you try it
here you'll be eaten alive or the flip
side you've got to know when to fold if
you want to survive for another day then
in a hail of I'll say and he here many
nod in agreement at first we thought
that maybe there were places where
dialogue couldn't survive but then we
learned to ask are you saying there
isn't anyone you know who is able to
hold a high-risk conversation in a way
that solves problems and builds
relationships there usually
is
chapter
4 learn to look how to notice when
safety is at
risk let's start this chapter by
visiting a crucial conversation you've
just ended a heated debate with a group
of people you supervise what started out
as a harmless discussion about your new
shift rotations ended up as a nasty
argument after an hour of carping and
complaining you finally went to your
separate Corners your you're now walking
down the hall wondering what happened in
a matter of minutes an innocent
discussion had transformed into a
crucial conversation and then into a
failed conversation and you can't recall
why you do remember a tense moment when
you started pushing your point of view a
bit too hard okay maybe way too hard and
eight people stared at you as if you had
just bitten the head off a chicken but
then the meeting ended what you don't
realize is that two of your friends are
walking down the hallway in the opposite
direction and conducting a play-by-play
of the meeting they do know what took
place it happened again the boss started
pushing so hard for Personal Agenda
items that we all began to act
defensively did you notice how at one
point all of our Jaws dropped
simultaneously of course I was just as
bad as the boss I spoke in absolutes
only pointed out facts that supported my
view and then ended with a list of
outlandish claims I got hooked like a
Marlin later that day as you talked to
your friends about the meeting they let
you in on what happened you were there
but somehow you missed what actually
happened that's because you were so
caught up in the content of the
conversation your buddy explains you
cared so deeply about the shift rotation
that you were blind to the conditions
you know how people were feeling and
acting what tone they were taking stuff
like that you saw all that while still
carrying on a heated conversation you
ask yeah your coworker explains I always
dual process that is when things start
turning ugly I watch the content of the
conversation along with what people are
doing I look for and examine both what
and why if you can see why people are
becoming upset or holding back their
views or even going silent you can do
something to get back on track you look
at the conditions and then you know what
to do to get back on track sometimes
your friend answers but you've got to
learn exactly what to look for it's a
form of social first aid by watching for
the moment a conversation starts turning
unhealthy you can respond quickly the
sooner you catch a problem the sooner
you'll be able to work your way back to
healthy dialogue and the less severe the
damage you can't believe how obvious
this advice is and yet you've never
thought of such a thing weirder still
your friend has in fact he has a whole
vocabulary for what's going on during a
crucial conversation it's as if you've
been speaking another
language in truth most of us do have
trouble dual processing watching for
content and conditions especially when
it comes to a crucial conversation when
both stakes and emotions are high we get
so caught up in what we're saying that
it can be nearly impossible to pull
ourselves out of the argument in order
to see what's happening to ourselves and
to others even when we are startled by
what's going on enough so that we think
yipes this has turned ugly now what we
may not know what to look for in order
to turn things around we may not see
enough of what's happening how could
that be how could we be smack dab in the
middle of a heated debate and not really
see what's going on a metaphor might
help it's akin to going fly fishing for
the first time with an experienced
angler your buddy keeps telling you to
cast your fly 6 feet Upstream from that
brown trout just out there only you
can't see a brown trout just out there
he can that's because he knows what to
look for you think you do you think you
need to look for a brown trout in
reality you need to look for a brown
trout that's underwater while the sun is
reflecting in your eyes you have to look
for elements other than the thing that
your dad has stuffed and mounted over
the fireplace it takes both knowledge
and practice to know what to look for
and then actually see it so what do you
look for when caught in the middle of a
crucial conversation what do you need to
see in order to catch problems before
they become too severe actually it helps
to watch for three different conditions
the moment a conversation turns crucial
signs that people don't feel safe
silence or violence and your own style
under stress let's consider each of
these conversation killers in turn first
stay alert for the moment a conversation
turns from a routine or harmless
discussion into a crucial one in a
similar vein as you anticipate entering
a tough conversation pay heed to the
fact that you're about to enter the
danger zone otherwise you can easily get
sucked into silly games before you
realize what's happened and as we
suggested earlier the further you stray
off track the harder it can be to return
to help catch problems early reprogram
your mind to pay attention to the signs
that suggest you're in a crucial
conversation some people first notice
physical signals their stomach gets
tight or their eyes get dry think about
what happens to your body when
conversations get tough everyone is a
little bit different what are your cues
whatever they are learn to look at them
as signs to step back slow down and
start with heart before things get out
of
hand others notice their emotions before
they notice signs in their body they
realize they are scared hurt or angry
and are beginning to react to or
suppress these feelings these emotions
can also be great cues to tell you to
step back slow down and take steps to
turn your brain back on some people's
first cue is not physical or emotional
but behavioral it's like an out-of Body
Experience they see themselves raising
their voice pointing their finger like a
loaded weapon or becoming very quiet
it's only then that they realize how
they're feeling so take a moment to
think about some of your toughest
conversations what cues can you use to
recognize that your brain is beginning
to disengage and you're at risk of
moving away from healthy
dialogue if you can catch signs that the
conversation is starting to turn crucial
before you get sucked so far into the
actual argument that you can never
withdraw from the content then you can
start dual processing
immediately and what exactly should you
watch for people who are gifted at
dialogue keep a constant vigil on safety
they pay attention to the content that's
a given and they watch for signs that
people are afraid when friends loved
ones or colleagues move away from
healthy dialogue freely adding to the
pool of meaning either forcing their
opinions into the pool pool or
purposefully keeping their ideas out of
the pool they immediately turn their
attention to whether or not others feel
safe when it's safe you can say anything
here's why gifted communicators keep a
close eye on safety dialogue calls for
the free flow of meaning period and
nothing kills the flow of meaning like
fear when you fear that people aren't
buying into your ideas you start pushing
too hard when you fear that you may be
harmed in some way you start withdrawing
and hiding
both these reactions to fight and to
take flight are motivated by the same
emotion fear on the other hand if you
make it safe enough you can talk about
almost anything and people will listen
if you don't fear that you're being
attacked or humiliated you yourself can
hear almost anything and not become
defensive think about your own
experience can you remember receiving
really blistering feedback from someone
at some point in your life but in this
instance you didn't become defensive
instead you absorbed the feedback you
reflected on it you allowed it to
influence you if so ask yourself why why
in this instance were you able to absorb
potentially threatening feedback so well
if you're like the rest of us it's
because you believed that the other
person had your best interest in mind in
addition you respected the other
person's opinion you felt safe receiving
the feedback because you trusted the
motives and ability of the other person
you didn't need to defend yourself from
what was being said on the other hand if
you don't feel safe you can't take any
feedback it's as if the pool of meaning
has a lid on it what do you mean I look
good is that some kind of joke are you
ribbing me when you don't feel safe even
well intended comments are suspect when
it's unsafe you start to go
blind by carefully watching for safety
violations not only can you see when
dialogue is in danger but you can also
re-engage your brain as we've said
before when your emotions start cranking
up key brain functions start shutting
down not only do you prepare to take
flight but your peripheral vision
actually Narrows in fact when you feel
genuinely threatened you can scarcely
see beyond what's right in front of you
similarly when you feel the outcome of a
conversation is being threatened you
have a hard time seeing beyond the point
you're trying to make by pulling
yourself out of the content of an
argument and watching for fear
you re-engage your brain and your full
vision
returns don't let safety problems lead
you astray let's add a note of caution
when others begin to feel unsafe they
start doing nasty things now since
they're feeling unsafe you should be
thinking to yourself hey they're feeling
unsafe I need to do something maybe make
it
safer that's what you should be thinking
unfortunately since others feel unsafe
they may be trying to make fun of of you
insult you or Bowl you over with their
arguments this kind of aggressive
behavior doesn't exactly bring out the
Diplomat in you so instead of taking
their attack as a sign that safety is at
risk you take it at its face as an
attack I'm under attack you think then
you respond in kind or maybe you try to
escape either way you're not dual
processing and then pulling out a skill
to restore safety instead you're
becoming part of the problem as you get
pulled into the fight
imagine the magnitude of what we're
suggesting here we're asking you to
recode silence and violence as signs
that people are feeling
unsafe we're asking you to fight your
natural tendency to respond in kind
we're asking you to undo years of
practice maybe even eons of genetic
shaping that prod you to take flight or
pick a fight when under attack and
recode the stimulus Ah that's a sign
that the other person feels unsafe and
then what do something to make it safe
in the next chapter we'll explore how
for now simply learn to look for safety
and then be curious not angry or
frightened as people begin to feel
unsafe they start down one of two
unhealthy paths they move either to
silence withholding meaning from the
pool or to violence trying to force
meaning in the pool that part we know
but let's add a little more detail just
as a little knowledge of what to look
for can turn blurry water into a brown
trout knowing a few of the Common forms
of silence and violence helps you see
safety problems when they first start to
happen that way you can step out restore
safety and return to dialogue before the
damage is too
great
silence silence consists of any act to
purposefully withhold information from
the pool of meaning it's almost always
done as a means of avoiding potential
problems and it always way restricts the
flow of meaning methods range from
playing verbal games to avoiding a
person entirely the three most common
forms of Silence are masking avoiding
and
withdrawing masking consists of
understating or selectively showing our
true opinions sarcasm sugarcoating and
couching are some of the more popular
forms avoiding involves steering
completely away from sensitive subjects
we talk but without addressing the real
issue
withdrawing means pulling out of a
conversation allog together we either
Exit the conversation or exit the
room violence violence consists of any
verbal strategy that attempts to
convince control or compel others to
your point of view it violates safety by
trying to force meaning into the pool
methods range from name calling and
monologuing to making threats the three
most common forms are controlling
labeling and attacking
controlling consists of coercing others
to your way of thinking it's done
through either forcing your views on
others or dominating the conversation
methods include cutting others off
overstating your facts speaking in
absolutes changing subjects or using
directive questions to control the
conversation labeling is putting a label
on people or ideas so we can dismiss
them under a general stereotype or
category attacking speaks for itself
you've moved from winning the argument
to making the person suffer tactics
include belittling and
threatening let's say you've been
watching for both content and conditions
you're paying special attention to when
a conversation turns crucial to catch
this important moment you're looking for
signs that safety is at risk as safety
is violated you even know to watch for
various forms of silence and violence so
are you now fully armed have you seen
all there is to see actually no perhaps
the most difficult element to watch
closely as your madly dual processing is
your own
behavior frankly most people have
trouble pulling themselves away from the
tractor beam of the argument at hand
then you've got the problem other people
present as they employ all kinds of
tactics you've got to watch them like a
hawk it's little wonder that paying
close attention to your own behavior
tends to take a backseat besides it's
not like you can actually step out of
your body and observe self you're on the
wrong side of your
eyeballs low
self-monitors the truth is we all have
trouble monitoring our own behavior at
times we usually lose any semblance of
social sensitivity when we become so
consumed with ideas and causes that we
lose track of what we're doing we try to
bully our way through we speak when we
shouldn't we do things that don't work
all in the name of a cause we eventually
become so unaware that we become a bit
like this fellow of Jack Handy's
invention people were always talking
about how mean this guy was who lived on
our block but I decided to go see for
myself I went to his door but he said he
wasn't the mean guy the mean guy lived
in that house over there no you stupid
idiot I said that's my
house unfortunately when you fail to
monitor your own behavior you can look
pretty silly for example you're talking
to your spouse about the fact that he or
she left you sitting at the auto repair
shop for over an hour after pointing out
that it was a simple misunderstanding
your spouse exclaims you don't have to
get angry then you utter those famous
words I'm not
angry of course you're spraying spit as
you shout out your denial and the vein
on your forehead has swell to the size
of a Teenage python you quite naturally
don't see the inconsistency in your
response you're in the middle of the
whole thing and you don't appreciate it
one bit when your spouse laughs at you
you also play this denial game when you
you ingenuously answer the question
what's wrong nothing's wrong you whimper
then you shuffle your feet stare at the
floor and look
wounded what does it take to be able to
step out of an argument and watch for
process including what you yourself are
doing and the impact you're having you
have to become a Vigilant self-monitor
that is pay close attention to what
you're doing and the impact it's having
and then alter your strategy if
necessary specifically why to see if
you're having a good or bad impact on
safety chapter
5 make it safe how to make it safe to
talk about almost
anything the last chapter contained a
promise if you spot safety risks as they
happen you can step out of the
conversation build safety and then find
a way to dialogue about almost anything
in this chapter we'll fulfill that
Promise by teaching what it takes to
restore safety
let's look at a couple of pieces that
help us establish safety even when the
topic is highrisk controversial and
emotional the first step to building
more safety is to understand which of
the two conditions of safety is at risk
each requires a different
solution Mutual purpose remember the
last time someone gave you a difficult
feedback and you didn't become defensive
say a person said some things to you
that most people might get upset over in
order for this person to be able to
deliver the delicate message you must
have believed he or she cared about you
or about your goals and objectives that
means you trusted his or her purposes so
you were willing to listen to some
pretty tough feedback crucial
conversations often go Ary not because
of the content of the conversation but
because others believe that the painful
and pointed content means that you have
a malicious intent how can they feel
safe when they believe you're out to do
them harm soon every word out of your
mouth is suspect
consequently the first condition of
safety is mutual
purpose Mutual purpose means that others
perceive that we are working toward a
common outcome in the conversation that
we care about their goals interests and
values and vice versa we believe they
care about
ours consequently Mutual purpose is the
entry condition of dialogue find a
shared goal and you have both a good
reason and a healthy climate for talking
watch for signs that mut ual purpose is
at
risk how do we know when the safety
problem we're seeing is due to a lack of
mutual purpose it's actually fairly easy
to spot first and foremost when purpose
is at risk we end up in debate when
others start forcing their opinions into
the pool of meaning it's often because
they figure that we're trying to win and
they need to do the same other signs
that purpose is at risk include
defensiveness hidden agendas the silence
form of fouled up purpose accusations
and circling back to the same topic here
are some crucial questions to help us
determine when Mutual purpose is at risk
do others believe I care about their
goals in this conversation do they trust
my
motives remember the mutual in mutual
purpose just a word to the wise Mutual
purpose is not a technique to succeed in
crucial conversations we must really
care about the interests of others not
just our own the purpose has to be truly
Mutual if our goal is to get our way or
manipulate others it will quickly become
apparent safety will be destroyed and
we'll be back to silence and violence in
no time before you begin examine your
motives ask yourself to start with hard
questions what do I want from me what do
I want for others what do I want for the
relationship look for the
mutuality let's see how Mutual purpose
applies to a tough example one where at
first glance it might appear as if your
purpose is to make things better for
yourself
how can you find Mutual purpose in this
let's say you've got a boss who
frequently fails to keep commitments how
could you tell the boss you don't trust
him surely there's no way to say this
without the boss becoming defensive or
vengeful because he knows that your goal
is merely to make your life better to
avoid disaster find a mutual purpose
that would be so motivating to the boss
that he'd want to hear your concerns if
your only reason for approaching the
boss boss is to get what you want the
boss will hear you as critical and
selfish which is what you are on the
other hand if you try to see the other
person's point of view you can often
find a way to draw the other person
willingly into even very sensitive
conversations for example if the boss's
behavior is causing you to miss
deadlines he cares about or incur costs
he Frets over or lose productivity that
he worries about then you're on to a
possible Mutual purpose imagine raising
the the topic this
way I've got some ideas for how I can be
much more reliable and even reduce costs
by a few thousand in preparing the
report each month it's going to be a bit
of a sensitive conversation but I think
it will help a great deal if we can talk
about
it mutual
respect while it's true that there's no
reason to enter a crucial conversation
if you don't have mutual purpose it's
equally true that you can't stay in the
conversation if you don't maintain
mutual respect
mutual respect is the continuous
condition of dialogue as people perceive
that others don't respect them the
conversation immediately becomes unsafe
and dialogue comes to a screeching halt
why because respect is like air if you
take it away it's all people can think
about the instant people perceive
disrespect in a conversation the
interaction is no longer about the
original purpose it is now about
defending
dignity for example you're talking with
a group group of Supervisors about a
complicated quality problem you really
want to see the problem resolved once
and for all your job depends on it
unfortunately you also think the
supervisors are overpaid and
underqualified you firmly believe that
not only are they in over their heads
but they do stupid things all the time
some of them even act
unethically as the supervisors throw out
ideas you roll your eyes the disrespect
you carry in your head creeps out in one
unfortunate gesture
and it's all over what happens to the
conversation despite the fact that you
still share a common objective it tanks
they take shots at your proposals you
add insulting adjectives in describing
theirs as attention turns to scoring
points everyone loses your Mutual
purpose suffers for a lack of mutual
respect to spot when respect is violated
and safety takes a turn South watch for
signs that people are defending their
dignity emotions are the key when people
feel disrespected they they become
highly charged their emotions turn from
Fear to
anger then they resort to pouting name
calling yelling and making threats ask
the following question to determine when
mutual respect is at risk do others
believe I respect
them can you respect people you don't
respect some people fear they'll never
be able to maintain Mutual purpose or
mutual respect with certain individuals
or in certain circumstances how they
Wonder can they share the same person
Purpose with people who come from
completely different backgrounds or
whose morals or values differ from
theirs what do you do for example if
you're upset because another person has
let you down and if this has repeatedly
happened how can you respect a person
who is so poorly motivated and
selfish dialogue truly would be doomed
if we had to share every objective or
respect every element of another
person's character before we could talk
if this were the case we'd all be mute
we can however stay in dialogue by
finding a way to honor and regard
another person's basic
Humanity in essence feelings of
disrespect often come when we dwell on
how others are different from ourselves
we can counteract These Feelings by
looking for ways we are similar without
excusing their behavior we try to
sympathize even empathize with
them apologize when
appropriate when you've met made a
mistake that has hurt others start with
an apology an apology is a statement
that sincerely expresses your sorrow for
your role in causing or at least not
preventing pain or difficulty to
others now an apology isn't really an
apology unless you experience a change
in heart to offer a sincere apology your
motives have to change you have to give
up Saving Face being right or winning in
order to focus on what you really want
you have to sacrifice a bit of your ego
by admitting your error but like many
sacrifices when you give up something
you value you're rewarded with something
even more valuable healthy dialogue and
better results then watch to see if the
sincere show of respect has helped
restore safety if it has you can now
explain the details of what happened if
it hasn't you'll need to use one of the
more advanced skills that follow in any
case first make it safe then return to
the issue
when your behavior has given someone
clear cause to doubt your respect or
commitment to Mutual purpose your
conversation will end up in silly
gameplaying and frustrating
misunderstandings until you offer a
sincere
apology sometimes others feel
disrespected during crucial
conversations even though we haven't
done anything disrespectful surely there
are times when respect gets violated
because we behave in clearly hurtful
ways but just as often the insult is
entirely
unintended the same can happen with
mutual purpose
you can start by innocently sharing your
views but the other person believes your
intention is to beat him or her up or
coerce him or her into accepting your
opinion clearly an apology is not
appropriate in these circumstances it
would be disingenuous to admit you were
wrong when you weren't how then can you
rebuild Mutual purpose or mutual respect
in order to make it safe to get back to
dialogue when others misinterpret either
your purpose or your intent step out of
the argument and rebuild safety by using
a skill called
contrasting contrasting is a don't do
statement that addresses others concerns
that you don't respect them or that you
have a malicious purpose the don't part
confirms your respect or clarifies your
real purpose the do part for example the
don't part the last thing I wanted to do
was communicate that I don't value the
work you put in or that I didn't want to
share it with the VP the due Part I I
think your work has been nothing short
of
spectacular now that you've addressed
the threat to safety you can return to
the issue of the visit itself and move
to
remediation unfortunately just when I
was starting to make the trip out here
an issue came up with the VP that I
needed to address right then and there
or it could have cost us a huge piece of
our business I tell you what I'll see if
I can get him down here sometime
tomorrow to review your work he'll be
here for the ribbon cutting ceremony
let's see if we can show off the process
improvements you came up with of the two
parts of contrasting the don't is the
more important because it deals with the
misunderstanding that has put safety at
risk the employees who worked so hard
are acting on the belief that you don't
appreciate their efforts and didn't care
enough to keep them informed when the
opposite was true so you address the
misunderstanding by explaining what you
don't intend once you've done this and
safety returns to the conversation then
you can explain what you do intend
safety
first let's add one more skill sometimes
we find ourselves in the middle of a
debate because we clearly have different
purposes there is no misunderstanding
here contrasting won't do the trick we
need something sturdier for this job for
instance you've just been offered a
promotion that will help Propel your
career along a faster track and bring
you a great deal more Authority and it
pays enough to help soften the blow of
displacement that last part is important
because you'll have to move the family
across the country and your spouse and
kids love where you currently live you
expected your spouse to have feelings of
ambivalence over the move but he or she
doesn't seem to be Bing even a tiny bit
to your spouse the promotion is a bad
news bad news event first you have to
move and second you'll work even longer
hours that whole thing about more money
and power doesn't seem to be
compensating now what the worst at
dialogue either ignores the problem and
push ahead or roll over and let others
have their way they opt for either
competition or submission both
strategies end up making winners and
losers and the problem continues long
beyond the initial
conversation the good at dialogue move
immediately toward compromise for
example the couple facing the transfer
sets up two households one where one
spouse will be working and one where the
family currently lives nobody really
wants this Arrangement and frankly it's
a pretty ugly solution that's bound to
lead to more serious problems even
divorce while compromise is sometimes
necessary the best know better than to
start there the best at dialogue use
four skills to look for a mutual purpose
the four skills they use form the
acronym
crib C commit to seek Mutual
purpose as is true with most dialogue
skills if you want to get back to
dialogue you have to start with art in
this case you have to Agree to Agree to
be successful we have to stop using
silence or violence to compel others to
our view we must even surrender false
dialogue where we pretend to have mutual
purpose calmly arguing our side until
the other person gives in we start with
heart by committing to stay in the
conversation until we come up with a
solution that serves a purpose we both
share this can be tough to stop arguing
we have to suspend our belief that our
choice is the absolute best and only one
and that we'll never be happy until we
get exactly what we currently want we
have to open our mind to the fact that
maybe just maybe there is a different
Choice out there one that suits
everyone we also have to be willing to
verbalize this commitment even when our
partner seems committed to winning we
act on faith that our partner is stuck
in silence or violence because he or she
feels unsafe we assume that if we build
more safety by demonstrating our
commitment to find finding a mutual
purpose the other person will feel more
confident that dialogue could be a
productive Avenue so next time you find
yourself stuck in a battle of wills try
this amazingly powerful but simple skill
step out of the content of the struggle
and make it safe simply say it seems
like we're both trying to force our view
I commit to stay in this discussion
until we have a solution both of us are
happy with then watch whether safety
takes a turn for the
better
R recognize the purpose behind the
strategy wanting to come up with a
shared goal is a wonderful first step
but it's not enough once we've had a
change of heart we need to change our
strategy here's the problem we have to
fix when we find ourselves at an impass
it's because we're asking for one thing
and the other person is asking for
something else we think we'll never find
a way out because we equate what we're
asking for with what we want in in truth
what we're asking for is the strategy
we're suggesting to get what we want we
confuse wants or Purpose with strategies
that's the problem for example I come
home from work and say that I want to go
to a movie you say that you want to stay
home and relax and so we debate movie TV
movie read Etc we figure we'll never be
able to resolve our differences because
going out and staying home are
incompatible in such circumstances we
can break the impass by asking others
why do you want that in this case why do
you want to stay home because I'm tired
of running around and dealing with the
hassle of the city so you want peace and
quiet mostly and why do you want to go
to a movie so I can spend some time with
you away from the
kids before you can agree on a mutual
purpose you must know what people's real
purposes are so step out of the content
of the conversation which is generally
focused on strategies and explore the
purposes behind them when you do this
new options become possible when you
release your grip on your strategy and
focus on your real purpose you open up
the possibility of finding New
Alternatives that can serve Mutual
purpose you want peace and quiet and I
want time with you away from the kids so
if we can come up with something that is
quiet and Away we'll both be happy is
that right
absolutely what if we were to take a
drive up the canyon and
I invent a mutual
purpose sometimes when we recognize the
purposes behind our strategies we
discover that we actually have
compatible goals from there you simply
come up with common strategies but we're
not always so lucky for example you find
out that your genuine wants and goals
cannot be served except at the expense
of the other person's in this case you
cannot discover a mutual purpose so you
must actively invent one to invent a
mutual ual purpose move to more
encompassing goals find an objective
that is more meaningful or more
rewarding than the ones that divide the
various sides for instance you and your
spouse may not agree on whether or not
you should take the promotion but you
can agree that the needs of your
relationship and the children come
before career aspirations by focusing on
higher and longer term goals you can
find a way to transcend short-term
compromises build Mutual purpose and get
to
dialogue B brainstorm new
strategies once you've built safety by
finding a shared purpose you should now
have enough safety to return to the
content of the conversation it's time to
step back into the dialogue and
brainstorm strategies that meet
everyone's needs if you've committed to
finding something everyone can agree on
and surfaced what you really want you'll
no longer be spending your energy on
unproductive conflict instead you'll be
actively coming up with options that can
serve everyone suspend judgment and
think outside the box for New
Alternatives can you find a way to work
in a job that is local and still meets
your career goals is this job with this
company the only thing that will make
you happy is a move really necessary in
this new job is there another community
that could offer your family the same
benefits if you're not willing to give
creativity a try it'll be impossible for
you to jointly come up with a mutually
acceptable option if you are the sky the
limit
so when you sense that you and others
are working across purposes here's what
you can do first step out of the content
of the conflict stop focusing on who
thinks what then crib your way to Mutual
purpose C commit to seek Mutual purpose
make a unilateral public commitment to
stay in the conversation until you come
up with something that serves everyone R
recognize the purpose behind the
strategy ask people why they want want
what they're pushing for separate what
they're demanding from the purpose it
serves I invent a mutual purpose if
after clarifying everyone's purposes you
are still at odds see if you can invent
a higher or longer term purpose that is
more motivating than the ones that keep
you in
Conflict B brainstorm new strategies
with a clear Mutual purpose you can join
forces in searching for a solution that
serves
everyone chapter six Master my stories
how to stay in dialogue when you're
angry scared or
hurt at this point you may be saying to
yourself how am I supposed to remember
to do all this stuff especially when my
emotions are raging like hot
magma this chapter explores how to gain
control of crucial conversations by
learning how to take charge of your
emotions by learning to exert influence
over your own feelings you'll Place
yourself in a far better position to use
all the tools we've explored thus
far as it turns out there is an
intermediate step between what others do
and how we feel that's why when faced
with the same circumstances 10 people
may have 10 different emotional
responses for instance some might feel
insulted whereas others merely feel
curious some become angry and others
feel concern or even sympathy what is
this intermediate step just after we
observe what others do and just before
we feel some emotion about it we tell
ourselves a story that is we add meaning
to the action we observed to the simple
Behavior we add motive why were they
doing that we also add judgment is that
good or bad and then based on these
thoughts or stories our body responds
with an
emotion exactly what are our stories
they are our interpretations of the
facts they help explain what we see and
hear there are theories we use to
explain why how and why what of course
as we come up with our own meaning or
stories it isn't long until our body
responds with strong feelings or
emotions they're directly linked to our
judgments of right wrong good bad kind
selfish Fair unfair
Etc even if you don't realize it you are
telling yourself stories when we teach
people that it's our stories that drive
our emotions and not other people's
actions someone inevitably raises a hand
and says wait a minute I didn't notice
myself telling a story
when that guy laughed at me during my
presentation I just felt angry the
feelings came first the thoughts came
second storytelling typically happens
blindingly fast when we believe we're at
risk we tell ourselves a story so
quickly that we don't even know we're
doing it if you don't believe this is
true ask yourself whether you always
become angry when someone laughs at you
if sometimes you do and sometimes you
don't then your response isn't hardwired
that means something goes on between
others laughing and you feeling in truth
you tell a story you may not remember it
but you tell a
story any set of facts can be used to
tell an infinite number of stories
stories are just that stories these
Fabrications could be told in any of
thousands of different ways if we take
control of our stories they won't
control us people who excel at dialogue
are able to influence their emotions
during crucial conversations they
recognize that while it's it's true that
at first we are in control of the
stories we tell after all we do make
them up of our own accord once they're
told the stories control us they control
how we feel and how we act and as a
result they control the results we get
from our crucial
conversations but it doesn't have to be
this way we can tell different stories
and break the loop in fact until we tell
different stories we cannot break the
loop if you want improved results from
your crucial conversations change the
stories you tell yourself even while
you're in the middle of The
Fray what's the most effective way to
come up with different stories the best
at dialogue find a way to First slow
down and then take charge of their path
to action here's
how retrace your path to slow down the
lightning quick storytelling process and
the subsequent flow of adrenaline
retrace your path to action one element
at a time this calls for a bit of mental
gymnastics first you have to stop what
you're currently doing then you have to
get in touch with why you're doing it
here's how to retrace your
path notice your
behavior why would you stop and retrace
your path to action in the first place
certainly if you're constantly stopping
what you're doing and looking for your
underlying motive and thoughts you won't
even be able to put on your shoes
without thinking about it for who knows
how long you'll die of analysis
paralysis actually you shouldn't
constantly stop and question your
actions if you learn to look as we
suggested in chapter 4 and note that you
yourself are slipping into silence or
violence you have good reason to stop
and take stock but looking isn't enough
you must take an honest look at what
you're doing if you tell yourself a
story that your violent behavior is a
necessary tactic you won't see the need
to reconsider your actions if you
immediately jump in with they started it
or otherwise find yourself rationalizing
your behavior you also won't feel
compelled to change rather than stop and
review what you're doing you'll devote
your time to justifying your actions to
yourself and others when an unhelpful
story is driving you to silence or
violence stop and consider how others
would see your actions for example if a
60 Minutes camera crew replayed this
scene on National Television how would
you look what would they tell about your
behavior not only do those who are best
at crucial conversations notice when
they're slipping into silence or
violence but they are also able to admit
it they don't w follow in self-doubt of
course but they do recognize the problem
and begin to take corrective action the
moment they realize that they're killing
dialogue they review their own path to
action get in touch with your feelings
as skilled individuals begin to retrace
their own path to action they
immediately move from examining their
own unhealthy Behavior to exploring
their feelings or emotions at first
glance this task sounds easy I'm angry
you think to yourself what could be
easier
actually identifying your emotions is
more difficult than you might imagine in
fact many people are emotionally
illiterate when asked to describe how
they're feeling they use words such as
bad or angry or frightened which would
be okay if these were accurate
descriptors but often they're not
individuals say they're angry when in
fact they're feeling a mix of
embarrassment and
surprise or they suggest they're unhappy
when they're feeling violated perhaps
they suggest they're upset when they're
really really feeling humiliated and
cheated since life doesn't consist of a
series of vocabulary tests you might
wonder what difference words can make
but words do matter knowing what you're
really feeling helps you take a more
accurate look at what is going on and
why for instance you're far more likely
to take an honest look at the story
you're telling yourself if you admit
you're feeling both embarrassed and
surprised rather than simply
angry how about you when experiencing
strong emotions do you stop think about
your feelings if so do you use a rich
vocabulary or do you mostly draw from
terms such as bummed out and Furious
second do you talk openly with others
about how you feel do you willingly talk
with loved ones about what's going on
inside of you third in so doing is your
vocabulary robust and accurate it's
important to get in touch with your
feelings and to do so you may want to
expand your emotional
vocabulary analyze your stories
once you've identified what you're
feeling you have to stop and ask given
the circumstances is it the right
feeling meaning of course are you
telling the right story after all
feelings come from stories and stories
are our own
invention the first step to regaining
emotional control is to challenge the
illusion that what you're feeling is the
only right emotion under the
circumstances this may be the hardest
step but it's also the most important
one by questioning our feelings we open
ourselves up to question our stories we
challenge the comfortable conclusion
that our story is right and true we
willingly question whether our emotions
very real and the story behind them only
one of many possible explanations are
accurate don't confuse stories with
facts sometimes you fail to question
your stories because you see them as
immutable facts when you generate
stories in the blink of an eye you can
get so caught up in the moment that you
begin to believe your stories are facts
they feel like facts you confuse
subjective conclusions with steel hard
data
points get back to the facts to separate
fact from story get back to the genuine
source of your feelings test your ideas
against a simple Criterion can you see
or hear this thing you're calling a fact
was it an actual
Behavior here's another tip to avoid
confusing story with fact watch for hot
terms for example when assessing the
facts you might say she scowled at me or
he made a sarcastic comment words such
as scowl and sarcastic are hot terms
they express judgments and attributions
that in turn create strong emotions they
are story not fact notice how much
different it is when you say her eyes
pinched shut and her lips tightened as
opposed to she scowled at
me as we begin to piece together why
people are doing what they're doing or
equally important why we're doing what
we are doing
with time and experience we become quite
good at coming up with explanations that
serve us well either our stories are
completely accurate and Propel Us in
healthy directions or they're quite
inaccurate but justify our current
behavior making us feel good about
ourselves and calling for no need to
change it's the second kind of story
that routinely gets us into trouble for
example we move to silence or violence
and then we come up with a perfectly
plausible reason for why it's okay of
course I yelled at him did you see what
he did he deserved it hey don't be
giving me the evil eye I had no other
choice we call these imaginative and
self-serving concoctions clever stories
they're clever because they allow us to
feel good about Behaving Badly better
yet they allow us to feel good about
Behaving Badly even while achieving
abysmal
results among all of the clever Stories
We Tell here are the three most common
victim stories it's not my fault the
first of the clever stories is a victim
story victim stories as you might
imagine make us out to be innocent
sufferers the theme is always the same
the other person is bad and wrong and we
are good and right other people do bad
things and we suffer as a result in
truth there is such a thing as an
innocent victim you're stopped in the
street and held up at gunpoint when an
event such as this occurs it's a sad
fact not a story you are a victim but
all Tales of victimization are not so
one-sided when when you tell a victim's
story you ignore the role you played in
the problem you tell your story in a way
that judiciously avoids facts about
whatever you have done or neglected to
do that might have contributed to the
problem for instance last week your boss
took you off a big project and it hurt
your feelings you complained to everyone
about how bad you felt of course you
failed to let your boss know that you
were behind on an important project
leaving him high and dry which is why he
removed you in the first place this part
of the story you leave out because hey
he made you feel bad to help support
your victim stories you speak of nothing
but your Noble motives I took longer
because I was trying to beat the
Standard specs then you tell yourself
that you're being punished for your
virtues not your vices he just doesn't
appreciate a person with my superb
attention to detail this added twist
turns you from victim into martyr what a
bonus villain stories it's all your
fault we create these nasty little Tales
by turning normal decent human beings
into villains we impute bad motive and
then we tell everyone about the evils of
the other party as if somehow we're
doing the world a huge favor for example
we describe a boss who is zealous about
quality as a control freak when our
spouse is upset that we didn't keep a
commitment we see him or her as
inflexible and stubborn in victim
Stories We exaggerate our own innocence
in villain Stories We overemphasize the
other person's guilt
we automatically assume the worst
possible motives while ignoring any
possible good or neutral intentions a
person may have labeling is a common
device in villain stories for example I
can't believe that bonee head gave me
bad materials again by employing the
handy label we are now dealing not with
a complex human being but with a boneh
head not only do villain stories help us
blame others for bad results but they
also set us up to then do whatever we
want to the villains after all we can
feel okay insulting or abusing a bon
head whereas we might have to be more
careful with a living breathing person
then when we fail to get the results we
really want we stay stuck in our
ineffective Behavior because after all
look who we're dealing with watch for
the double standard when you pay
attention to victim or villain stories
and catch them for what they are unfair
characterizations you begin to see the
terrible double standard we use when our
emotions are out of control when we make
mistakes we tell a victim Story by
claiming our intentions were innocent
and pure sure I was late getting home
and didn't call you but I couldn't let
the team down on the other hand when
others do things that hurt us we tell
villain stories in which we invent
terrible motives for others based on how
their actions affected us you are so
thoughtless you could have called me and
told me you were going to be
late helpless stories there's nothing
else I can do finally come helpless
stories in these Fabrications we make
ourselves out to be powerless to do
anything we convince ourselves that
there are no healthy alternatives for
dealing with our predicament which
justifies the action we're about to take
a helpless story might suggest if I
didn't yell at my son he wouldn't listen
or on the flip side if I told my husband
this he would just be
defensive while villain and victim
stories look back to explain why we're
in the situation we're in helpless
stories look forward to explain why we
can't do anything to change our
situation it's particularly easy to act
helpless when we turn others Behavior
into fixed and unchangeable traits for
example when we decide our boss is a
control freak villain story we are less
inclined to give him feedback because
after all control freaks like him don't
accept feedback helpless story nothing
we can do will change that fact as you
can see helpless stories often stem from
villain stories and typically offer us
nothing more than suckers choices
why we tell clever stories they match
reality sometimes the stories we tell
are accurate the other person is trying
to cause us harm we are innocent victims
or maybe we really can't do much about
the problem it can happen it's not
common but it can happen they get us off
the hook more often than not our
conclusions transform from reasonable
explanations to clever stories when they
conveniently excuse us from any
responsibility
when in reality we have been partially
responsible the other person isn't bad
and wrong and we aren't right and good
the truth lies somewhere in the middle
however if we can make others out as
wrong and ourselves out as right we're
off the hook better yet once we've
demonized others we can even insult and
abuse them if we
want clever stories keep us from
acknowledging our own
sellouts by now it should be clear that
clever stories causes problems a reason
able question at this point is if
they're so terribly hurtful why do we
ever tell clever
stories our need to tell clever stories
often starts with our own sellouts like
it or not we usually don't begin telling
stories that justify our actions until
we've done something that we feel a need
to
justify we sell out when we consciously
act against our own sense of what's
right and after we've sold out we have
only two choices own up to our sellout
or try to justify it and if we don't
admit to our errors we inevitably look
for ways to justify them that's when we
begin to tell clever
stories once we've learned to recognize
the clever Stories We Tell ourselves we
can move to the final Master my story
skill the dialogue smart recognize that
they're telling clever stories stop and
then do what it takes to tell a useful
story a useful Story by definition
creates emotions that lead to healthy
action such as dialogue and what trans
forms a clever story into a useful one
the rest of the story that's because
clever stories have one characteristic
in common they're incomplete clever
stories omit crucial information about
us about others and about our options
only by including all of these essential
details can clever stories be
transformed into useful ones what's the
best way to fill in the missing details
quite simply it's done by turning
victims into actors villains into humans
and the helpless into the able here's
how turn victims into actors if you
notice that you're talking about
yourself as an innocent victim and you
weren't held up at gunpoint ask am I
pretending not to notice my role in the
problem this question jars you into
facing up to the fact that maybe just
maybe you did something to help cause
the problem instead of being a victim
you were an actor this doesn't
necessarily mean you had malicious
motives perhaps your contribution was
merely a thoughtless Omission
nonetheless you contributed for example
a coworker constantly leaves the harder
or noxious tasks for you to complete you
frequently complained to friends and
loved ones about being exploited the
parts you leave out of the story are
that you smile broadly when your boss
compliments you for your willingness to
take on challenging jobs and you've
never said anything to your coworker
you've hinted but that's about it the
first step in telling the rest of this
story would be to add these important
facts to your account by asking what
role you've played you begin to realize
how selective your perception has been
you become aware of how you've minimized
your own mistakes while you've
exaggerated the role of
others turn villains into humans when
you find yourself labeling or otherwise
vilifying others stop and ask why would
a reasonable rational and decent person
do what this person is doing this
particular question humanizes others as
we search for plausible answers to it
our emotions soften empathy often
replaces judgment and depending upon how
we've treated others personal
accountability replaces
self-justification for instance that
coworker who seems to conveniently miss
out on the tough jobs told you recently
that she could see you were struggling
with an important assignment and
yesterday while you were tied up on a
pressing task she pitched in and
completed the job for you you were
instantly suspicious she was trying to
make you look bad by by completing a
high-profile job how dare she pretend to
be helpful when her real goal was to
discredit you while tooting her own horn
well that's the story you've told
yourself but what if she really were a
reasonable rational and decent person
what if she had no motive other than to
give you a hand isn't it a bit early to
be vilifying her and if you do don't you
run the risk of ruining a relationship
might you go off half coocked accuse her
and then learn you were
wrong our purpose for asking why a
reasonable rational and decent person
might be acting a certain way is not to
excuse others for any bad things they
may be doing if they are indeed guilty
we'll have time to deal with that later
the purpose of the humanizing question
is to deal with our own stories and
emotions it provides us with still
another tool for working on ourselves
first by providing a variety of possible
reasons for the other person's behavior
in fact with experience and maturity we
learn to to worry less about others
intent and more about the effect others
actions are having on us no longer are
we in the game of rooting out unhealthy
motives and here's the good news when we
reflect on alternative motives not only
do we soften our emotions but equally
important we relax our absolute
certainty long enough to allow for
dialogue the only reliable way of
discovering others genuine
motives turn the helpless into the able
finally when you can yourself boning
your own helplessness you can tell the
complete story by returning to your
original motive to do so stop and ask
what do I really want for me for others
for the relationship then kill the
sucker's choice that's made you feel
helpless to choose anything other than
silence or violence do this by asking
what would I do right now if I really
wanted these results for example you now
find yourself insulting your coworker
for not pitching in with a tough job
your coworker seems surprised at your
strong and outof thee blue reaction in
fact she's staring at you as if you've
slipped a cog you of course have told
yourself that she is purposefully
avoiding noxious tasks and that despite
your helpful hints she's made no changes
I have to get brutal you tell yourself I
don't like it but if I don't offend her
I'll be stuck doing the grunt work
forever you've strayed from what you
really want to share work equally and to
have a good relationship you've given up
on half of your goals by making a
sucker's choice oh well better to offend
her than to be made a
fool what should you be doing instead
openly honestly and effectively
discussing the problem not taking pot
shots and then justifying yourself when
you refuse to make yourself helpless
you're forced to hold yourself
accountable for using your dialogue
skills rather than boning your
weakness chapter 7 State my path how to
speak persuasively not
abrasively so far we've gone to Great
pains to prepare ourselves for crucial
conversations here is what we've learned
our hearts need to be in the right place
we need to pay close attention to
crucial conversations particularly when
people start feeling unsafe and heaven
forbid that we should tell ourselves
clever and unhelpful stories so let's
say that we are well prepared we're
ready to open our mouths and start
sharing our pool of meaning that's right
we're actually going to talk now what
most of the time we walk into a
discussion and slide into autopilot Hi
how are the kids what's going on at work
what could be easier than talking we
know thousands of words and generally
weave them into conversations that suit
our needs most of the time however when
Stakes rise and our emotions kick in
well that's when we open our mouths and
don't do so well in fact as we suggested
earlier the more important the
discussion the less likely we are to be
on our best Behavior more specifically
we Advocate or express our views quite
poorly to help us improve our advocacy
skills we'll examine two challenging
situations first we'll look at five
skills for talking when what we have to
say could easily make others
defensive second we'll explore how these
same skills help us State our opinions
when we believe so strongly in something
that we risk shutting others down rather
than opening them up to our
ideas sharing RIS
meaning adding information to the pool
of meaning can be quite difficult when
the ideas we're about to dump into the
collective Consciousness contain
delicate unattractive or controversial
opinions I'm sorry Marta but people
simply don't like working with you
you've been asked to leave the special
projects
team it's one thing to argue that your
company needs to shift from green to Red
packaging it's quite another to tell a
person that he or she is offensive or
unlikable or has has a controlling
leadership style when the topic turns
from things to people it's always more
difficult and to nobody's surprise some
people are better at it than others when
it comes to sharing touchy information
the worst alternate between bluntly
dumping their ideas into the pool and
saying nothing at all either they start
with you're not going to like this but
hey somebody has to be honest a classic
sucker's choice or they simply stay mum
fearful they could easily destroy a
healthy relationship those who are good
at dialogue say some of what's on their
minds but understate their views out of
fear of hurting others they talk but
they sugarcoat their message the best at
dialogue speak their minds completely
and do it in a way that makes it safe
for others to hear what they have to say
and respond to it as well they are both
totally Frank and completely
respectful maintain
safety in order to speak honestly when
honesty could easily offend others we
have to find a way to maintain safety
that's a bit like telling someone to
smash another person in the nose but you
know don't hurt him how can we speak the
Unspeakable and still maintain respect
actually it can be done if you know how
to carefully blend three
ingredients confidence humility and
skill confidence most people simply
don't hold delicate conversations well
at least not with the right person for
instance your colleague Brian goes home
at night and tells his wife that his
boss Fernando is micromanaging him to
within an inch of his life he says the
same thing over lunch when talking with
his Pals everyone knows what Brian
thinks about Fernando except of course
Fernando people who are skilled at
dialogue have the confidence to say what
needs to be said to the person who needs
to hear it they are confident that their
opinions deserve to be placed in the
pool of meaning they are also confident
that they can speak openly without
brutalizing others others or causing
undue
offense
humility confidence does not equate to
arrogance or pigheadedness skilled
people are confident that they have
something to say but also realize that
others have valuable input they are
humble enough to realize that they don't
have a monopoly on the truth their
opinions provide a starting point but
not the final word they may currently
believe something but realize that with
new information they may change their
minds this means they're willing to both
Express their opinions and encourage
others to do the same skill finally
people who willingly share delicate
information are good at doing it that's
why they're confident in the first place
they don't make a sucker's choice
because they found a path that allows
for both cander and safety they speak
the Unspeakable and people are grateful
for their
honesty once you've worked on yourself
to create the right conditions for
dialogue you can then draw upon five
distinct skills that can help you talk
about even the most sensitive topics
these five tools can be easily
remembered with the acronym state it
stands for share your facts tell your
story ask for others paths talk
tentatively encourage testing the first
three skills describe what to do the
last two tell how to do it the what
skills s share your facts in the last
chapter we suggested that if you retrace
your path to action to the source you
have eventually arrive at the facts
facts provide a safe Beginning by their
very nature facts aren't controversial
that's why we call them facts for
example consider the statement yesterday
you arrived at work 20 minutes late no
dispute there conclusions on the other
hand are highly controversial for
example you can't be trusted that's
hardly a fact actually it's more like an
insult and it can certainly be disputed
eventually we may want to share our
conclusions but we certainly don't don't
want to open up with a
controversy facts are the most
persuasive in addition to being less
controversial facts are also more
persuasive than subjective conclusions
facts form the foundation of belief so
if you want to persuade others don't
start with your stories start with your
observations while we're speaking here
about being persuasive let's add that
our goal is not to persuade others that
we are right we aren't trying to win the
dialogue we just want our meaning to get
a fair hearing we're trying to help
others see how a reasonable rational and
decent person could end up with the
story we're carrying that's all T tell
your story sharing your story can be
tricky even if you started with your
facts the other person can still become
defensive when you move from Facts to
stories after all you're sharing
potentially unflattering conclusions and
judgments why share your story in the
first place because the facts alone are
rarely worth mentioning it's the facts
plus the conclusion that call for a
face-to-face discussion in addition if
you simply mention the fact the other
person may not understand the severity
of the
implications to be honest it can be
difficult to share negative conclusions
and unattractive judgments for example
I'm wondering if you're a thief it takes
confidence to share such a potentially
inflammatory story however if you've
done your homework by thinking through
the facts behind your story you'll
realize that you are drawing a
reasonable rational and decent
conclusion one that deserves hearing and
by starting with the facts you've laid
the groundwork by thinking through the
facts and then leading with them you're
much more likely to have the confidence
you need to add controversial and
vitally important meaning to the shared
pool a ask for others paths we mentioned
that the key to sharing sensitive ideas
is a blend of confidence and humility we
express our confidence by by sharing our
facts and stories clearly we demonstrate
our humility by then asking others to
share their views so once you've shared
your point of view facts and stories
alike invite others to do the same if
your goal is to learn rather than to be
right to make the best decision rather
than to get your way then you'll be
willing to hear other views by being
open to learning we are demonstrating
humility at its best for example ask
yourself what does the school teacher
think is your boss really intending to
micromanage you is your spouse really
having an affair to find out others
views on the matter encourage them to
express their facts stories and feelings
then carefully listen to what they have
to say equally important be willing to
abandon or reshape your story as more
information pours into the pool of
shared
meaning the how skills T talk
tentatively talking tentatively simply
means that we tell our story as a story
rather than disguising it as a fact
perhaps you were unaware suggests that
you're not absolutely certain in my
opinion says you're sharing an opinion
and no more when sharing a story strike
a blend between confidence and humility
share in a way that expresses
appropriate confidence in your
conclusions while demonstrating that if
appropriate you want your conclusions
challenged to do so change the fact is
to in my opinion swap everyone knows
that for I've talked to three of our
suppliers who think that soften it's
clear to me to I'm beginning to wonder
if why soften the message because we're
trying to add meaning to the pool not
force it down other people's throats if
we're too forceful the information won't
make it into the pool besides with both
facts and stories we're not absolutely
certain they're true our observations
could be faulty our story
well they're only educated guesses in
addition when we use tentative language
not only does it accurately portray our
uncertain view but it also helps reduce
defensiveness and makes it safe for
others to offer differing opinions one
of the ironies of dialogue is that when
we're sharing controversial ideas with
potentially resistant people the more
forceful we are the less persuasive we
are in short talking tentatively can
actually increase our
influence e
encourage
testing when you ask others to share
their paths how you phrase your
invitation makes a big difference not
only should you invite others to talk
but you have to do so in a way that
makes it clear that no matter how
controversial their ideas are you want
to hear them others need to feel safe
sharing their observations and stories
even if they differ otherwise they don't
speak up and you can't test the accuracy
and relevance of your views this becomes
particular L important when you're
having a crucial conversation with
people who might move to silence some
people make sucker choices in these
circumstances they worry that if they
share their true opinions others will
clam up so they choose between speaking
their minds and hearing others out but
the best at dialogue don't choose they
do both they understand that the only
limit to how strongly you can express
your opinion is your willingness to be
equally vigorous in encouraging others
to challenge it
invite opposing views so if you think
others may be hesitant make it clear
that you want to hear their views no
matter their opinion if they disagree so
much the better if what they have to say
is controversial or even touchy respect
them for finding the courage to express
what they're thinking if they have
different facts or stories you need to
hear them to help complete the picture
make sure they have the opportunity to
share by actively inviting them to do so
does anyone see it differently what am I
missing here I'd really like to hear the
other side of this story mean it
sometimes people offer an invitation
that sounds more like a threat than a
legitimate call for opinions well that's
how I see it nobody disagrees do they
invite people with both words and tone
that say I really want to hear from you
for instance I know people have been
reluctant to speak up about this but I
would really love to hear from everyone
or I know there are at least two sides
to this story could we hear differing
views now what problems could this
decision cause us play Devil's Advocate
occasionally you can tell that others
are not buying into your facts or story
but they're not speaking up either
you've sincerely invited them even
encouraged differing views but nobody
says anything to help Grease the skids
play Devil's Advocate model disagreeing
by disagreeing with your own view Maybe
I'm Wrong here what if the opposite is
true what if the reason sales have
dropped is
because now let's turn our attention to
another communication challenge this
time you're not offering delicate
feedback or iffy stories you're merely
going to step into an argument and
Advocate your point of view it's the
kind of thing you do all the time you do
it at home you do it at work and yes
you've even been known to fire off an
opinion or two while standing in line at
the
DMV unfortunately as Stakes rise and
others argue differing views and you
just know in your heart of hearts that
you're right and they're wrong you start
pushing too hard you simply have to win
there's too much at risk and only you
have the right ideas left to their own
devices others will mess things up so
when you care a great deal and are sure
of your views you don't merely speak you
try to force your opinions on others
quite naturally others resist you in
turn push even harder as consultants we
the authors watch this kind of thing
happen all the time for instance seated
around the table is a group of leaders
who are starting to debate an important
topic topic first someone hints that
she's the only one with any real insight
then someone else starts tossing out
facts like so many poisonous darts
another it just so happens someone with
critical information Retreats into
silence as emotions rise words that were
once carefully Chosen and tentatively
delivered are now spouted with an
absolute certainty that is typically
reserved for claims that are nailed to
church doors or carved on Stone tablets
in the end nobody is listening everyone
is committed to silence or violence and
the pool of shared meaning is dry nobody
wins how did we get like this it starts
with a story when we feel the need to
push our ideas on others it's generally
because we believe we're right and
everyone else is wrong there's no need
to expand the pool of meaning because we
own the pool we also firmly believe it's
our duty to fight for the truth that
we're holding it's the honorable thing
to do it's what people have character
do of course others aren't exactly
villains in this story they simply don't
know any better we on the other hand are
modern day heroes crusading against
naive and tunnel vision we feel
justified in using dirty tricks once
we're convinced that it's our duty to
fight for the truth we start pulling out
the big guns we use debating tricks that
we've picked up throughout the years
Chief among them is the ability to stack
the deck we cite information that
supports our ideas while hiding or
discrediting anything that doesn't then
we spice things up with exaggeration
everyone knows that this is the only way
to go when this doesn't work we lace our
language with inflammatory terms all
right thinking people would agree with
me from there we employ any number of
dirty tricks we appeal to Authority well
that's what the boss thinks we attack
the person you're not so naive as to
actually believe that we draw Hasty
generalizations if it happened in our
overseas operation it'll happen here for
sure sure and again the harder we try
and the more forceful our tactics the
greater the resistance we create the
worse the results and the more battered
our
relationships how do we
change the solution to excessive
advocacy is actually rather simple if
you can just bring yourself to do it
when you find yourself just dying to
convince others that your way is best
back off your current attack and think
about what you really want for yourself
others and the relationship then ask
yourself how would I behave if these
were the results I really wanted when
your adrenaline level gets below the
0.05 legal limit you'll be able to use
your state skills first watch for the
moment when people start to resist you
turn your attention from the topic no
matter how important to yourself are you
leaning forward are you speaking more
loudly are you starting to try to win
are you speaking in lengthy monologues
and using dirty tricks remember the more
you care about an issue the less likely
you are to be on your best behavior
second tone down your approach open
yourself up to the belief that others
might have something to say and better
still they might even hold a piece of
the puzzle and then ask them for their
views of course this isn't easy backing
off when we care the most is so
counterintuitive that most of us have
trouble pulling it off it's not easy to
soften your language when you're
positive about something and who wants
to ask for other views when you know
they're wrong that's positively nuts in
fact it can feel disingenuous to be
tentative when your own strong belief is
being brought into question of course
when you watch others shift from healthy
dialogue to forcing their way on others
it's obvious that if they don't back off
nobody will buy in that's when you're
watching others on the other hand when
we ourselves are pushing hard it's the
correct thing to do right let's face it
when it comes to our strongest views
passion can be our enemy of course
feeling strongly about something isn't
bad in and of itself it's okay to have
strong opinions the problem comes when
we try to express them for instance when
we believe strongly in a concept or a
cause our emotions kick in and we start
trying to force our way onto others as
our emotions kick in our ideas no longer
flow into the pool instead our thoughts
shoot out of our mouths like water out
of a raging fire hydrant and guess what
others become defensive when this
happens when our emotions turn our ideas
into a harsh and painful stream of
thoughts our honest passion kills the
argument rather than supports it catch
yourself so what's a person to do catch
yourself before you launch into a
monologue realize that if you're
starting to feel indignant or if you
can't figure out why others don't buy in
after all it's so obvious to you
recognize that you're starting to enter
dangerous territory back off your harsh
and conclusive language not your belief
hold to your belief merely soften your
approach chapter
8 explore others paths how to listen
when others blow up or clam
up over the past few months your
daughter Wendy has started to date a guy
who looks like he's about 10 minutes
away from a felony arrest after only a
few weeks of dating this fellow Wendy's
clothing preference is now far too
suggestive for your taste and she
routinely punctuates her language with
expletives when you carefully try to
talk to her about these recent changes
she shouts accusations and insults and
then withdraws to her room where she
sulks for hours on
end now what should you do something
given that you're not the one going to
silence or violence when others clam up
refusing to speak their minds or blow up
communicating in a way that is abusive
and insulting is there something you can
do to get them to dialogue the answer is
a resounding it depends if you want to
let a sleeping dog lie
or in this case a potential train wreck
go unattended then say nothing it's the
other person who seems to have something
to say but refuses to open up it's the
other person who's blown a cork Run for
Cover you can't take responsibility for
someone else's thoughts and feelings
right then again you'll never work
through your differences until all
parties freely add to the pool of
meaning that means the people who are
blowing up or clamming up must
participate as well and while it's true
that you can't force others to dialogue
you can take steps to make it safer for
them to do so after all that's why
they've sought the security of silence
or violence in the first place they're
afraid that dialogue will make them
vulnerable somehow they believe that if
they engage in real conversation with
you bad things will happen your daughter
for instance believes that if she talks
with you she'll be lectured grounded and
cut off from the only guy who seems to
care about her restoring safety is your
greatest hope to get your relationship
back on
track in chapter 5 we recommended that
whenever you notice safety is at risk
you should step out of the conversation
and restore it when you have offended
others through a thoughtless act
apologize or if someone has
misunderstood your intent use
contrasting explain what you do and
don't intend finally if you're simply at
odds find a mutual purpose now we add
one more skill explore others paths
since we've added a model of what's
going on inside another person's head
the path to action we now have a whole
new tool for helping others feel safe if
we can find a way to let others know
that it's okay to share their path to
action their facts and yes even their
nasty stories and ugly feelings then
they'll be more likely to open up but
what does it
take be sincere to get at others facts
and stories we have to invite them to
share what's on their minds for example
consider the following incident a
patient is exiting a healthc care
facility the desk attendant can tell
that she is a bit uneasy maybe even
dissatisfied did everything go all right
with the procedure the clerk asks mostly
the patient replies if ever there was a
hint that something was wrong the term
mostly has to be it good the clerk
abruptly responds and then follows with
a resounding
next this is a classic case of
pretending to be interested it falls
under the how are you today category of
inquiries meaning please don't say
anything of substance I'm really just
making small talk when you ask people to
open up be prepared to
listen be curious when you do want to
hear from others and you should because
it adds to the pool of meaning the best
way to get at the truth is by making it
safe for them to express the stories
that are moving them to either silence
or violence this means that at the very
moment when most people become Furious
We need to become curious rather than
respond in kind we need to wonder what's
behind the
Ruckus to avoid over reac reacting to
others stories stay curious give your
brain a problem to stay focused on ask
why would a reasonable rational and
decent person say this this question
keeps you retracing the other person's
path to action until you see how it all
fits together and in most cases you end
up seeing that under the circumstances
the individual in question drew a fairly
reasonable
conclusion be patient when others are
acting out their feelings and opinions
through silence or violence it's a good
bet they're starting to feel the effects
of adrenaline
even if we do our best to safely and
effectively respond to the other
person's possible Onslaught we still
have to face up to the fact that it's
going to take a little while for him or
her to settle down say for example that
a friend dumps out an ugly story and you
treat it with respect and continue on
with the conversation even if the two of
you now share a similar view it may seem
like your friend is still pushing too
hard while it's natural to move quickly
from one thought to the next strong
emotions take a while to subside one
once the chemicals that fuel emotions
are released they hang around in the
bloodstream for a while in some cases
long after thoughts have changed so be
patient when exploring how others think
and feel encourage them to share their
path and then wait for their emotions to
catch up with the safety that you've
created so far we've suggested that when
other people appear to have a story to
tell and facts to share it's our job to
invite them to do so our cues are simple
others are going to silence or violence
we can see that they're feeling upset
fearful or angry we can see that if we
don't get at the source of their
feelings we'll end up suffering the
effects of the feelings these external
reactions are our cues to do whatever it
takes to help others retrace their paths
to action how we've also suggested that
whatever we do to invite the other
person to open up and share his or her
path our invitation must be sincere as
hard as it sounds we must be sincere in
the face of hostility fear or even even
abuse which leads us to the next
question what what are we supposed to
actually do what does it take to get
others to share their path stories and
facts alike in a word it requires
listening in order for people to move
from acting on their feelings to talking
about their conclusions and observations
we must listen in a way that makes it
safe for others to share their intimate
thoughts they must believe that when
they share their thoughts they won't
offend others or be punished for
speaking
frankly to encourage others to share
their paths we'll use four power
listening tools that can help make it
safe for other people to speak frankly
we call the force skills power listening
tools because they are best remembered
with the acronym amp ask mirror
paraphrase and Prime luckily the tools
work for both silence and violence games
a ask to get things rolling the easiest
and most straightforward way to
encourage others to share their path to
action is simply to invite them to
express themselves for example often all
it takes to break an impass is to seek
to understand others views when we show
genuine interest people feel less
compelled to use silence or violence for
example do you like my new dress or you
going to call the modesty police Wendy
smirks what do you mean you ask I'd like
to hear your
concerns if you're willing to step out
of the prey and simply invite the other
person to talk about what's really going
on it can go a long way toward breaking
the downward spiral and getting to the
source of the problem common invitations
include what's going on i' really like
to hear your opinion on this please let
me know if you see it differently don't
worry about hurting my feelings I really
want to hear your
thoughts M mirror to confirm
feelings if asking others to share their
path doesn't open things up mirroring
can help build more safety in mirroring
we take the portion of the other
person's path to action we have access
access to and make it safe for him or
her to discuss it all we have so far are
actions and some hints about the other
person's emotions so we start there when
we mirror as the name suggests we hold a
mirror up to the other person describing
how they look or act although we may not
understand others stories or facts we
can see their actions and get clues
about their feelings this particular
tool is most useful when another
person's tone of voice or gestures hints
about the emotions behind them are in
consistent with his or her words for
example don't worry I'm fine but the
person in question is saying this with a
look that suggests he is actually quite
upset he's frowning looking around and
sort of kicking at the ground the most
important element of mirroring is our
tone of voice it is not the fact that we
are acknowledging others emotions that
creat safety we create safety when our
tone of voice says we're okay with them
feeling the way they're feeling if we do
this well they may conclude that rather
than acting out their emotions they can
confidently talk them out with us
instead P paraphrase to acknowledge the
story asking and mirroring may help you
get part of the other person's story out
into the open when you get a clue about
why the person is feeling as he or she
does you can build additional safety by
paraphrasing what you've heard be
careful not to Simply parrot back what
was said instead put the message in your
own words usually in an abbreviated form
let's see if I've got this right you're
upset because I've voiced my concern
about some of the clothes you wear and
this seems controlling or old fashion to
you the key to paraphrasing as with
mirroring is to remain calm and
collected our goal is to make it safe
not to act horrified and suggest that
the conversation is about to turn ugly
stay focused on figuring out how a
reasonable rational and decent person
could have created this path to action
this will help you keep from becoming
angry or defensive simply rephrase what
the person has said and do it in a way
that suggests that it's okay you're
trying to understand and it's safe for
him or her to talk candidly don't push
too hard let's see where we are we can
tell that another person has more to
share than he or she is currently
sharing he or she is going to silence or
violence and we want to know why we want
to get back to the source the facts
where we can solve the problem to
encourage the person to share we've
tried three listening tools we've asked
mirrored and paraphrased the person is
still upset but isn't explaining his or
her stories or facts now what at this
point we may want to back off after a
while our attempts to make it safe for
others can start feeling as if we're
pestering or prying if we push too hard
we violate both purpose and respect
others may think our purpose is merely
to extract what we want from them and
conclude that we don't care about them
personally so instead we back off rather
than trying to get to the source of the
other person's emotions we either
gracefully exit or ask what he or she
wants to see happen asking people what
they want helps them engage their brains
in a way that moves to problem solving
and away from either attacking or
avoiding it also helps reveal what they
think the cause of the problem is p
Prime when you're getting nowhere on the
other hand there are times when you may
conclude that others would like to open
up but still don't feel safe or maybe
they're still in violence haven't come
down from the adrenaline and aren't
explaining why they're angry when this
is the case you might want to try
priming Prime when you believe that the
other person still has something to
share and might do so with a little more
effort on your part the power listening
term priming comes from the expression
priming the pump if you've ever worked
an old-fashioned hand pump you
understand the metaphor with a pump you
often have to pour some water into it to
get it running then it works just fine
when it comes to power listening
sometimes you have to offer your best
guess at what the other person is
thinking or feeling you have to pour
some meaning into the pool before the
other person will do the same a few
years back one of the authors was
working with an executive team that had
decided to add an afternoon shift to one
of the company's work areas the
Machinery wasn't being fully utilized
and the company couldn't afford to keep
the area open without adding a three to
midnight crew this of course meant that
the people currently working days would
now have to rotate every 2 weeks to
afternoons it was a tortured but
necessary Choice as the execs held a
meeting to announce the unpopular change
the existing work crew went silent they
were obviously unhappy but nobody would
say anything the operations manager was
afraid that people would misinterpret
the company's actions as nothing more
than a grab for more money in truth the
area was losing money but the decision
was made with the current employees in
mind with no second shift there would be
no job jobs he also knew that asking
people to rotate shifts and to be away
from loved ones during the afternoon and
evening would cause horrible burdens as
people sat silently fuming the executive
did his best to get them to talk so that
they wouldn't walk away with unresolved
feelings he mirrored I can see her upset
who wouldn't be is there anything we can
do nothing finally he primed that is he
took his best guess at what they might
be thinking said it in a way that showed
it was okay to talk about it and then
went on from there are you thinking that
the only reason we're doing this is to
make money that maybe we don't care
about your personal lives after a brief
pause someone answered well it sure
looks like that do you have any idea how
much trouble this is going to cause then
someone else chimed in and the
discussion was often running now this is
not the kind of thing you would do
unless nothing else has worked you
really want to hear from others and you
have a very strong idea of what they're
probably thinking priming is an act of
good faith taking risks becoming
vulnerable and Building Safety in hopes
that others will share their
meaning let's say you did your level
best to make it safe for the other
person to talk after asking mirroring
paraphrasing and eventually priming the
other person opened up and shared his or
her path it's now your turn to talk but
what if you disagree some of the other
person's facts are wrong and his or her
stories are completely fouled up well at
least they're a lot different from the
story you've been telling now now
what
agree as you watch families and work
groups take part in heated debates it's
common to notice a rather intriguing
phenomenon although the various parties
you're observing are violently arguing
in truth they're in violent agreement
they actually agree on every important
point but they're still fighting they
found a way to turn subtle differences
into a raging debate for example last
night your teenage son broke his curfew
again you and your spouse have spent the
morning arguing about the infraction
last time James came in late you agreed
to ground him but today you're upset
because it seems like your spouse is
backpedaling by suggesting that James
still be able to attend a football camp
this week turns out it was just a
misunderstanding you and your spouse
agree to the grounding the central issue
you thought your spouse was renigging on
the agreement when in truth you just
hadn't actually resolved the date the
grounding would start you had to step
back and listen to what you were both
saying to realize that you weren't
really disagreeing but violently
agreeing most arguments consist of
battles over the 5 to 10% of the facts
and stories that people disagree over
and while it's true that people
eventually need to work through
differences you shouldn't start there
start with an area of agreement so
here's the takeaway if you completely
agree with the other person's path say
so and move on agree when you agree
don't turn an agreement into an
argument
build of course the reason most of us
turn agreements into debates is because
we disagree with a certain portion of
what the other person has said never
mind that it's a minor portion if it's a
point of disagreement we'll jump all
over it like a fleeing criminal actually
we're trained to look for minor errors
from an early age for instance we learn
in kindergarten that if you have the
right answer you're the teacher's pet
being right is good of course if others
have the right answer they get to be the
pet so being right first is even better
you learn to look for even the tiniest
of in others facts thinking or logic
then you point out the errors being
right at the expense of others is best
by the time you finish your education
you have a virtual PhD in Catching
trivial differences and turning them
into a major deal so when another person
offers up a suggestion based on facts
and stories you're looking to disagree
and when you do find a minor difference
you turn this snack into a meal instead
of remaining in healthy dialogue you end
up in violent agreement on the other
hand when you watch people who are
skilled in dialogue it becomes clear
that they're not playing this everyday
game of Trivial Pursuit looking for
trivial differences and then proclaiming
them aloud in fact they're looking for
points of agreement as a result they'll
often start with the words I agree then
they talk about the part they agree with
at least that's where they start now
when the other person has merely left
out an element of the argument skilled
people will agree and then build rather
than saying wrong you forgot to mention
they say absolutely in addition I
noticed that if you agree with what has
been said but the information is
incomplete build point out areas of
agreement and then add elements that
were left out of the
discussion
compare finally if you do disagree
compare your path with the other persons
that is rather than suggesting that he
or she is wrong suggest that you differ
he or she may in fact be wrong but you
don't know for sure until you hear both
sides of the story for now you just know
that the two of you differ so instead of
pronouncing wrong start with a tentative
but candid opening such as I think I see
things differently let me describe how
then share your path using the state
skills from chapter 7 that is Begin by
sharing your observations share them
tentatively and invite others to test
your ideas after you've shared your path
invite the other person to help you
compare it with his or her experience
work together to explore and explain the
differences in summary to help remember
these skills think of your ABCs agree
when you agree build when others leave
out key pieces compare when you differ
don't turn differences into debates that
lead to unhealthy relationships and bad
results chapter nine move to action how
to turn crucial conversations into
action and
results up until this point we've
suggested that getting more meaning into
the pool helps with dialogue it's the
one thing that helps people make Savvy
decisions that in turn lead to Smart
Actions in order to encourage this free
flow of meaning we've shared the skills
we've been able to learn by watching
people who are gifted at dialogue by now
if you've followed some or all of this
advice you're walking around with full
pools people who walk near you should
hear the
sloshing it's time we add two final
skills having more meaning in the pool
even jointly owning it doesn't guarantee
that we all agree on what we're going to
do with the meaning for example when
teams or families meet and generate a
host of ideas they often fail to convert
the ideas into action for two reasons
they have unclear expectations about how
decisions will be made they do a poor
job of acting on the decisions they do
make this can be dangerous in fact when
people move from adding meaning to the
pool to moving to action it's a prime
time for new challenges to arise who is
supposed to take the assignment that can
be controversial how are we supposed to
decide in the first place that can be
emotional let's take a look at what it
takes to solve each of these problems
first making
decisions the two riskiest times in
crucial conversations tend to be at the
beginning and at the end the beginning
is risky because you have to find a way
to create safety or else things go arai
the end is dicey because if you aren't
careful about how you clarify the
conclusion and decisions flowing from
your of shared meaning you can run into
violated expectations later on this can
happen in two ways how are decisions
going to be made first people may not
understand how decisions are going to be
made for example carara is miffed Renee
just plunked down a brochure for a 3-day
cruise and announced he had made
reservations and even paid the $500
deposit for an outside Suite A week ago
they had a crucial conversation about
vacation plans both expressed their
views and preferen es respectfully and
candidly it wasn't easy but at the end
they concluded a cruise suited both
quite well and yet Cara is miffed and
Renee is stunned that Cara is anything
less than ecstatic Cara agreed in
principle about a cruise she didn't
agree with this particular Cruise Renee
thought that any Cruise would be fine
and made a decision on his own have fun
on the cruise
Renee are we ever going to decide the
second problem with decision-making
occurs when no decision gets made either
ideas slip away and dissipate or people
can't figure out what to do with them or
maybe everyone is waiting for everyone
else to make the decisions hey we filled
the pool now you do something with it in
any case decisions drag on
forever both of these problems are
solved if before making a decision the
people involved decide how to decide
don't allow people to assume that
dialogue is decision-making dialogue is
a process for getting all relevant
meaning into a share shared pool that
process of course involves everyone
however simply because everyone is
allowed to share their meaning actually
encouraged to share their meaning
doesn't mean they are then guaranteed to
take part in making all the decisions to
avoid violated expectations separate
dialogue from decision-making make it
clear how decisions will be made who
will be involved and why when the line
of authority is clear when you're in a
position of authority you decide which
method decision-making you'll use
managers and parents for example decide
how to decide it's part of their
responsibility as leaders for instance
VPS don't ask hourly employees to decide
on pricing changes or product lines
that's the leader's job parents don't
ask small children to pick their home
security device or to set their own
curfew that's the job of the parent of
course both leaders and parents turn
more decisions over to their direct
reports and children when they warrant
the responsibility but it's still the
authority figure who decides what method
of decision- making to employ deciding
what decisions to turn over and when to
do it is part of their
stewardship when the line of authority
isn't clear when there is no clear line
of authority deciding how to decide can
be quite
difficult when you're deciding how to
decide it helps to have a way of talking
about the decision-making options
available there are four common ways of
making decisions command consult vote
and consensus
these four options represent increasing
degrees of involvement increased
involvement of course brings the benefit
of increased commitment along with the
curse of decreased decision-making
efficiency Savvy people choose from
among these four methods of decision-
making the one that best suits their
particular
circumstances command let's start with
decisions that are made with no
involvement whatsoever this happens in
one of two ways either outside forces
Place demands on us demands that leave
us no wiggle room or we turn decisions
over to others and then follow their
lead we don't care enough to be involved
let someone else do the work in the case
of external forces customers set prices
agencies mandate safety standards and
other governing bodies simply hand us
demands as much as employees like to
think their bosses are sitting around
making choices for the most part they're
simply passing on the demands of the
circumstances these are Command
Decisions with Command Decisions it's
not our job to decide what to do it's
our job to decide how to make it work in
the case of turning decisions over to
others we decide either that this is
such a low stakes issue that we don't
care enough to take part or that we
completely trust the ability of the
delegate to make the right decision more
involvement adds nothing in strong teams
and great relationships many decisions
are made by turning the final Choice
over to someone we trust to make a good
decision we don't want to take the time
ourselves and gladly turn the decision
over to
others consult consult in is a process
whereby decision makers invite others to
influence them before they make their
choice you can consult with experts a
representative population or even
everyone who wants to offer an opinion
Consulting can be an efficient way of
gaining ideas and support without
bogging down the decision-making process
at least not too much wise leaders
parents and even couples frequently make
decisions in This Way vote voting is
best suited to situations where
efficiency is the highest value and
you're selecting from a number of good
options members of the team realize they
may not get their first choice but
frankly they don't want to waste time
talking the issue to death they may
discuss options for a while and then
call for a vote when facing several
decent options voting is a great
timesaver but should never be used when
team members don't agree to support
whatever decision is made in these cases
consensus is required consensus this
method can be both a great blessing and
a frustrating curse consensus means you
talk until everyone honestly agrees to
one decision this method can produce
tremendous unity and high quality
decisions if misapplied it can also be a
horrible waste of time it should only be
used with one high stakes and complex
issues or two issues where everyone
absolutely must support the final
choice now let's look at each of the
four methods in turn what are the common
blunders associated with each and more
importantly how can we avoid
them appropriate use of command
the mistake for years employees have
complained that their bosses are far too
bossy they hand out orders like
Halloween candy they not only tell
people what to do but also restrict them
to only one way of doing it they give
directions down to the tiniest detail
when it would be better to allow the
employee to work out the details of how
the job will be done after all the
employee is not only closest to the job
but is also the expert on how to do it
today's generation of employees and
children for that matter expects to be
involved in more decisions than their
grandparents ever faced that's where the
empowerment movement came from younger
people don't see themselves as a pair of
hands seeking Direction they want to
think they want to decide they're
willing to take on more
responsibility so as you face a
potential Command Decision consider the
following don't pass out orders like
candy we Face enough Command Decisions
constraints placed on us by outside
forces without making up new ones as a
general rule if people can make choices
allow them to do so don't tie their
hands without reason with kids for
example you may establish rules about
cleanliness in the common areas of the
home but you may let them choose within
the boundaries of hygiene how to keep
their
rooms when You Face a Command Decision
ask which elements are
flexible once a standard has been set by
an agency or an order placed by a
customer while you may not be able to
decide what to work on or what standards
to follow you can decide how to work
find out where you do have degrees of
freedom and then allow others to choose
Within These
boundaries explain why when handing down
an order explain the reason behind the
demand knowing why helps make what a lot
easier for example if you decide
overtime is needed to meet a deadline it
helps to explain why you came to this
conclusion the dos and don'ts of
consultation the most obvious problem
with consultation is that people believe
that if you involve them in sharing
ideas they get to make the decision it's
easy to see how this happens since you
ask for people's input you weigh all the
options and you make a decision then 2/3
of those you asked feel violated because
you didn't do what they told you to do
dialogue is a great tool for
consultation it enables you to get all
meaning into the shared pool but before
people start contributing be sure they
understand that the fact that you are
Consulting ING with them does not mean
that eventually the decision will be
made by
consensus when should you use
consultation consult when one many
people will be affected two you can
gather information relatively easily
three people care about the decision and
four there are many options some of them
controversial when these conditions
apply find a way to touch Bas with a lot
of people in different positions
locations and functions before moving on
don't simply call on your friends and
Buddies
also consider the following don't
pretend to consult if you've already
made up your mind don't go through the
charade of involving people only to do
what you wanted to do all along for
example the boss calls on people and
then strikes down ideas that aren't in
line with what he or she has in mind
while giving subtle Clues and gentle
rewards to those who stumble on to the
right
idea announce what you're doing when you
are only going to involve a sample of
the people who will be affected let
others know who these people are so they
can talk to them if they like this is
akin to holding neighborhood political
meetings not everyone will show up but
people who want to take part can take
part report your decision when others
are kind enough to share their opinions
whether you take their advice or not
they deserve to know what you decide and
why don't try to keep your decision a
secret because you're afraid you'll
offend people they'll soon learn of the
decision anyway better to hear it from
you and not through the grap
Vine holding a good vote weigh the
consequences voting by its very nature
creates winners and losers so you have
to be careful you should only take a
vote when you know that the losers don't
really care all that much otherwise you
may be fighting the battle for a long
time after the decision has been made
with children for example have them
carefully consider if they're okay with
losing before they agree to have you
take a
poll know when to vote when matters
aren't all that weighty there are many
good choices to select elect from and
people care about not taking too much
time then take a vote it's the kind of
thing you do to reduce lengthy lists
vote to reduce the list of 25 items to
five then use consensus to select from
the five don't cop out with a vote when
everyone cares a great deal about an
issue and people are having trouble
coming to a choice don't stop and call
for a vote votes should never replace
patient analysis and healthy dialogue if
you find yourself saying all right we'll
never agree so let's vote
you're coping
out surviving the joys of
consensus imagine you're working with
six people all housed in a tight space
things are sailing along smoothly until
one day when a new employee shows up
with a huge boom box it looks like a
storage shed with a handle on top it has
its own set of wheels 30 seconds later
the pulsing sounds of A Band Called
decible Death fill your area you're not
happy you fear your head will explode
how might you handle this or how about
this challenge how do you decide the
temperature of the room you share or how
about this one where does the entire
family go on vacation or if you want to
take on a real corker who performs the
most distasteful jobs at home and at
work these are the kinds of decisions
where neither consultation nor command
tools work very well everyone is
affected everyone cares and there are
several options not equally liked this
kind of crucial conversation calls for
consensus everyone meets honestly and
openly discusses the choices comes up
with a variety of ideas and jointly
makes a decision that each person agrees
to support as is the case with all
crucial conversations this is not an
easy process and is routinely handled
poorly here are some hints for avoiding
common mistakes Don't Force consensus
onto everything as Abraham maslo once
said if the only tool you have is a
hammer you tend to see every problem as
a nail consensus decision- making is one
of today's widely used hammers people
apply it to situations that don't
deserve the time and attention needed to
come to a consensus or that can't be
solved unanimously for example 40 people
are brought together to decide on the
color of the work area that's too many
people use
consultation a team meets to decide if
each team member should use a certain
type of coffee mug we not making this up
let people choose their own a couple
asks their son to decide his own
punishment not always a good idea some
decisions need to be made by
command don't pretend that everyone gets
his or her first choice nobody ever said
that with consensus everyone gets his or
her way consensus isn't about getting
your way it's about doing what's best
for the family or team it requires give
and take it demands compromise followed
by the resolve to support in some cases
your second or third choice because it's
best for the
group no Martyrs please healthy teams
and families are good at coming to
consensus because they're good at
dialogue they don't toggle from Silence
to violence or otherwise play games in
order to get their way since everyone
has a say and says it well healthy
groups don't end up with the same people
constantly giving in and then playing
the role of martyr are you enjoying the
theme park don't worry about me I'll
just sit here on the curb and try to
think of what it would have been like to
go to
Paris don't take turns decision should
be based on Merit not on who offers up
the options don't take turns getting
your way well Leona my recollection is
that you gave in last time so I guess
it's our turn to roll over on this one
make the decision based on which
proposal best meets the needs of the
group this doesn't mean that people
don't take into account personalities or
strength of Desire deferring to those
who care a great deal when you don't
care all that much for instance it
simply means that the future of your
family or organization should shouldn't
come down to the flip of a
coin don't engage in post-decision
lobbying consensus decisions should be
made out in the open and as an entire
group withholding your reservations and
then approaching individuals after the
discussion is both inefficient and
disloyal if you have an issue bring it
up in front of the group leave unhealthy
alliances dirty deals and secret
discussions to people who are on reality
game shows they can afford to abuse one
another take their winnings and go their
separate ways with families and work
groups you stay together long after the
ugly behavior and you suffer the
long-term
consequences don't say I told you so
nothing is quite so annoying as having
someone agree on a choice his or her
second choice perhaps and then cry I
Told You So when it doesn't work out
once you've decided on something as a
group support the idea not even when it
fails but particularly when it fails
there's no room for fair weather family
members or teammates show character when
an idea doesn't work out own the failure
together now let's take a look at the
final step you've engaged in healthy
dialogue filled the pool of meaning
decided how you're going to draw from
the pool and eventually come to some
decisions it's time to do something some
of the items may have been completely
resolved during the discussion but many
may require a person or team to do
something you'll have to make
assignments as you might suspect when
you're involved with two or more people
there's a chance that there will be some
confusion to avoid common traps make
sure you consider the following four
elements who does what by when how will
you follow up who to quote an English
proverb everybody's business is Nobody's
Business If you don't make an actual
assignment to an actual person there's a
good chance that nothing will ever come
of all the work you've gone through to
make a decision when it's time to pass
out without assignments remember there
is no we we when it comes to assignments
actually means not me it's code even
when individuals are not trying to duck
an assignment the term we can lead them
to believe that others are taking on the
responsibility assign a name to every
responsibility this especially applies
at home if you're divvying up household
chores be sure you've got a specific
person to go with each chore that is if
you assign two or three people to take
on a task appoint one of them the
responsible party otherwise any sense of
responsibility will be lost in a flurry
of finger pointing later
on does what be sure to spell out the
exact deliverables you have in mind the
fuzzier the expectations the higher the
likelihood of
disappointment for example The Eccentric
entrepreneur Howard Hughes once assigned
a team of Engineers to design and build
the world's first steam powered car when
sharing his dream of a vehicle that
could run on heated water he gave them
virtually no
Direction after several years of intense
labor the engineers successfully
produced the first prototype by running
dozens of pipes through the car's body
thus solving the problem of where to put
all the water required to run a steam
powerered car the vehicle was
essentially a giant
radiator when Hughes asked the engineers
what would happen if the car got into a
wreck they nervously explained that the
passengers would be boiled alive much
like lobsters in a pot Hughes was so
upset and what the crew came up with
that he insisted they cut it up into
pieces no larger than 3 in that was the
end of the project learn from Hughes
when you're first agreeing on an
assignment clarify upfront the exact
details of what you want couples get
into trouble in this area when one of
the parties doesn't want to take the
time to think carefully about the
deliverables and then later on becomes
upset because his or her unstated
desires weren't met have you ever
remodeled a room with a loved one
then you know what we're talking about
better to spend the time upfront
clarifying exactly what you want rather
than waste resources and hurt feelings
on the back end to help clarify
deliverables use contrasting if you've
seen people misunderstand an assignment
in the past explain the common mistake
as an example of what you don't want if
possible point to physical examples
rather than talk in the abstract bring a
prototype or sample we learned this
particular trick when ing a set designer
the renowned designer talked about what
he would deliver and it sounded great to
us $25,000 later he delivered something
that would never work we had to start
over from scratch from that day on we've
learned to point to pictures and talk
about what we want and don't want the
clearer the picture of the deliverable
the less likely you'll be unpleasantly
surprised by
when it's shocking how often people
leave this element out of an assignment
instead of giving a deadline people
simply point to the setting son of
someday with vague or unspoken deadlines
other urgencies come up and the
assignment Finds Its way to the bottom
of the pile where it is soon forgotten
assignments without deadlines are far
better at producing guilt than
stimulating action goals without
deadlines aren't goals they're merely
directions how will you follow up always
agree on how often and by what method
you'll follow up on the assignment it
could be a simple email confirm the
completion of a project it might be a
full report in a team or family meeting
more often than not it comes down to
progress checks along the way it's
actually fairly easy to build follow-up
methods into the assignment for example
call me on my cell phone when you finish
your homework then you can go play with
friends okay or perhaps you'll prefer to
rely on Milestones let me know when
you've completed your library research
then we'll sit down and look at the next
steps Milestones of course must be
linked to a drop- dead date let me know
as soon as you've completed the research
component of this project you've got
until the last week in November but if
you finish earlier give me a call
remember if you want people to feel
accountable you must give them an
opportunity to account build an
expectation for follow-up into every
assignment chapter 10 putting it all
together tools for preparing and
learning over the years people often
tell us that the principles and skills
contained in this book have helped them
a great deal but how in what way can the
printed word lead to important
changes after watching people at home
and at work as well as interviewing them
we've learned that most people make
progress not by focusing on specific
skills at least to start with but
instead by applying two of the main
principles in this book we hope that as
we share their success strategies with
you you'll feel more confident getting
started on the road to improved results
and
relationships the first lever for posit
positive change is learn to look that is
people who improve their dialogue skills
continually ask themselves whether
they're in or out of dialogue this alone
makes a huge difference even people who
can't remember or never learned the
skills of state or crib Etc are able to
benefit from this material by simply
asking if they're falling into silence
or violence they may not know exactly
how to fix the specific problem they're
facing but they do know that if they're
not in dialogue it can't be good and
then they try something to get back to
dialogue as it turns out trying
something is better than doing nothing
so remember to ask the following
important question are we playing games
or are we in dialogue It's a Wonderful
start many people get additional help in
learning to look from their friends they
go through training as families or teams
as they share Concepts and ideas they
learn a common vocabulary this shared
way of talking about crucial
conversations helps people
change perhaps the most common way that
the language of dialogue finds itself in
everyday conversation is with the
expression I think we've moved away from
dialogue this simple reminder helps
people catch themselves early on before
the damage is severe as we've watched
executive teams work groups and couples
simply go public with the fact that
they're starting to move towards silence
or violence others often recognize the
problem and take corrective action
you're right I'm not telling you what
needs to be said or I'm sorry I have
been trying to force my ideas on you the
second lever is make it safe we've
suggested that dialogue consists of the
free flow of meaning and that the number
one flow stopper is a lack of safety
when you notice that you and others have
moved away from dialogue do something to
make it safer anything we've suggested a
few skills but those are merely a
handful of common practices they're not
immutable principles to no one's
surprise there are many things you can
do to increase safety if you simply
realize that your challenge is to make
it safer nine out of 10 times you'll
intuitively do something that helps
sometimes you'll build safety by asking
a question and showing interest in
others views sometimes an appropriate
touch with loved ones and family members
not at work where touching can equate
with harassment can communicate safety
apologies Smiles even a request for a
brief time out can help restore safety
when things get dicey the main idea is
to make it safe do something to make
others comfortable and remember
virtually every skill we've covered in
this book from contrasting to crib
offers a tool for building safety these
two levers form the basis for
recognizing building and maintaining
dialogue when the concept of dialogue is
introduced these are the ideas most
people can readily take in and apply to
crucial
conversations we've included an extended
case here to show how these principles
might look when you find yourself in the
middle of a crucial
conversation it outlines a tough
discussion between you and your sister
about dividing your mother's estate the
case is set up to illustrate where the
principles apply and to briefly review
each Principle as it comes up in the
conversation the conversation begins
with you bringing up the family summer
house your mother's funeral was a month
ago and now it's time to split up both
money and keepsakes you're not really
looking forward to it the issue is made
touchier by the fact that you feel that
since you almost single-handedly cared
for your mother during the last several
years you should be compensated you
don't think your sister will see things
the same way
you we have to sell the summer Cottage
we never use it and we need the cash to
pay for my expenses from taking care of
Mom the past four years sister please
don't start with the guilt I sent you
money every month to help take care of
Mom if I didn't have to travel for my
jobs you know I would have wanted her at
my house you notice that emotions are
already getting getting strong you're
getting defensive and your sister seems
to be angry you're in a crucial
conversation and it's not going
well start with heart ask yourself what
you really want you want to be
compensated fairly for the extra time
and money you put in that your sister
didn't you also want to keep a good
relationship with your sister but you
want to avoid making a sucker's choice
so you ask yourself how can I tell her
that I want to be compensated fairly for
the extra effort and expense I put in
and keep a good
relationship learn to look you recognize
a lack of mutual purpose you're both
trying to defend your actions rather
than discuss the estate make it safe
contrast to help your sister understand
your purpose you I don't want to start
an argument or try to make you feel
guilty but I do want to talk about being
compensated for shouldering most of the
responsibility over the last few years I
love Mom but it put quite a strain on me
financially and emotionally sister what
makes you think you did so much more
than I did you're telling yourself that
you deserve more because you did more to
care for your mother and covered
unplanned expenses retrace your path to
action to find out what facts are behind
the story you're telling that's making
you angry you need to share your facts
and conclusions with your sister in a
way that will make her feel safe telling
her story
you it's just that I spent a lot of
money taking care of Mom and did a lot
of work caring for her instead of
bringing in a nurse I know you cared
about Mom too but I honestly feel like I
did more in the day-to-day caregiving
than you did and it only seems fair to
use some of what she left us to repay a
part of what I spent do you see it
differently I'd really like to hear
sister okay fine why don't you just send
me a
bill it sounds as though your sister
isn't really okay with this Arrangement
you can tell her voice is tense and her
tone is one of giving in not of true
agreement since part of your objective
is to maintain a good relationship with
your sister it's important that she add
her meaning to the pool use the amp
skills to actively Explore her views you
the way you say that makes it sound like
maybe that suggestion isn't okay with
you is there something I'm missing
sister no if you feel like you deserve
more than I do you're probably right you
do you think I'm being unfair that I'm
not acknowledging your contributions
sister it's just that I know I wasn't
around much in the last couple of years
I've had to travel a lot for work but I
still visited whenever I could and I
sent money every month to help
contribute to Mom's care I offered to
help pay to bring in a nurse if you
thought it was necessary I didn't know
you felt you had an unfair share of the
responsibility and it seems like your
asking for more money is coming out of
nowhere you so you feel like you were
doing everything you could to help out
and are surprised that I feel like I
should be compensated sister well
yes you understand your sister's story
now and still disagree to a point use
the ABC skills to explain how your view
differs you agree in part with how your
sister sees things use building to
emphasize what you agree with and to
bring up what you differ on you you're
right you did a lot to help out and I
realized that it was expensive to visit
as often as you did I opted not to pay
for professional Home Health care
because Mom was more comfortable with me
taking care of her and I didn't mind
that on top of that there were some
incidental expenses it doesn't sound
like you were aware of the new
medication she was on during the last 18
months was twice as expensive as the old
and the insurance only covered a
percentage of her hospital stays it adds
up sister so it's these expenses you're
worried about covering could we go over
these expenses to decide how to cover
them you want to create a definite plan
for being reimbursed for these expenses
and you want it to be one you both agree
on come to a consensus about what will
happen and document who does what by
when and settle on way to follow up you
I've kept a record of all the expenses
that went over the amount that both of
us agreed to contribute can we sit down
tomorrow to go over those and talk about
what's fair to reimburse me for sister
okay we'll talk about the estate and
write up a plan for how to divide things
up summary putting it all
together if we first learn to recognize
when safety is at risk and a
conversation becomes crucial learn to
look and that we need to take steps to
make it safe for everyone to contribute
his or her meaning we can begin to see
where to apply the skills we've learned
a visual model can also help us see
where the principles and skills are
needed using these tools and reminders
will get us started in mastering the
skills that help us improve our crucial
conversations chapter
11 yeah but advice for tough
cases as we the authors have taught this
material we've grown accustomed to
people saying yeah but my Situation's
more difficult than that or yeah but the
people I deal with aren't so quick to
come around besides most of the problems
I face come as a surprise I'm caught off
guard in short people can think of a
dozen reasons why the skills we've been
talking about don't apply to the
situations they care
about in truth the dialogue skills we've
shared apply to just about any problem
you can imagine however since some are
more difficult than others we've chosen
several tough cases we'll take a moment
to share a thought or two on each sexual
or other harassment it's not like
anyone's blatantly harassing me or
anything but I don't like the way I'm
being treated how can I bring it up
without making
enemies someone is making comments or
gestures that you find offensive the
person does it seldom enough and he or
she's subtle enough that you're not sure
if HR or your boss can even help what
can you do in these situations it's easy
to think that the offender has all the
power it seems as if the rules of polite
Society make it so that others can
behave inappropriately and you end up
looking like you're overreacting if you
bring it up generally speaking a vast
majority of these problems go away if
they're privately respectfully and
firmly discussed your biggest challenge
will be the respect part if you put up
with this behavior for too long you'll
be inclined to tell a more and more
potent villain story about the offender
this will Jack up your emotions to the
point that you'll go in with guns
blazing even if only through your body
language the solution tell the rest of
the story if you've tolerated the
behavior for a long time before holding
the conversation own up to it this may
help you treat the individual like a
reasonable rational and decent person
even if some of his or her behavior
doesn't fit this
description when you feel a measure of
respect for the other person you're
ready to begin after establishing a
mutual purpose for the exchange State
your path for example I'd like to talk
about something that's getting in the
way of my working with you it's a tough
issue to bring up but I think it'll help
us be better teammates if I do is that
okay when I walk into your office
sometimes your eyes move up and down my
body and when I sit next to you at a
computer sometimes you put your arm
around the back of my chair I don't know
that you're aware you're doing the these
things so I thought I'd bring them up
because they send a message that makes
me uncomfortable how do you see
it if you can be respectful and private
but firm in this conversation most
problem Behavior will stop and remember
if the behavior is over the line you
shouldn't hesitate to contact HR to
ensure your rights and dignity are
protected my overly sensitive spouse
what do you do when your spouse is too
sensitive you try to give him or her
some constructive feedback but but he or
she reacts so strongly that you end up
going to
silence often couples come to an
unspoken agreement during the first year
or so of their marriage that affects how
they communicate for the rest of their
marriage say one person is touchy and
can't take feedback or the other doesn't
give it very well in any case they in
effect agree to say nothing to each
other they live in silence problems have
to be huge before they discussed the
solution this is generally a problem of
not knowing how to date your path when
something bothers you catch it early
contrasting can also help I'm not trying
to blow this out of proportion I just
want to deal with it before it gets out
of hand describe the specific behaviors
you've observed when Jimmy leaves his
room a mess you use sarcasm to get his
attention you call him a pig and then
laugh as if you didn't mean it
tentatively explain the consequences I
don't think it's having the effect you
want he doesn't pick up on the hint and
I'm afraid that he's starting to resent
you
your story encourage testing do you see
it
differently finally learn to look for
signs that safety is at risk and make it
safe when you state things well and
others become defensive refuse to
conclude that the issue is impossible to
discuss think harder about your approach
step out of the content do what it takes
to make sure your partner feel safe and
then try again to candidly State your
view when spouses stop giving each other
helpful feedback they lose out on the
help of a lifelong Confidant and Coach
they miss out on hundreds of
opportunities to help each other
communicate more
effectively failure to live up to
agreements my teammates are hypocrites
we get together and talk about all the
ways we could improve but then people
don't do what they agreed
to the worst teams walk away from
problems like these in good teams the
boss eventually deals with problem
behavior in the best teams every team
member is part of the system of
accountability if team members see
others violate a team agreement they
speak up immediately and directly it's
dangerous to wait for or expect the boss
to do what good teammates should do
themselves the
solution if your teammate isn't doing
what you think he or she should it's up
to you to speak up we realized this
after watching a group of Executives
that agreed they'd hold off on all
discretionary spending to help free up
cash for a short-term crunch
this strategy sounded good in the warm
glow of an off-site meeting but the very
next day a team member rushed back and
prepaid a vendor for 6 months of
Consulting work work that appeared to be
discretionary a team member who saw the
executive prepare for and then make the
prepayment didn't realize this was the
crucial conversation that would
determine whether the team would pull
together or fall apart on this issue
instead he decided it was up to the boss
to hold this person accountable he said
nothing by the time the boss found out
about the transaction and addressed the
issue the policy had already been
violated and the money spent motivation
to support the new plan dissipated and
the team ran short of cash when teams
try to rally around aggressive change or
bold new initiatives they need to be
prepared to address the problem when a
team member doesn't live up to the
agreement success does not depend on
perfect compliance with new expectations
but on teammates who hold crucial
convers ations with one another when
others appear to be reverting to Old
patterns deference to
Authority people who work for me filter
what they say by guessing what they
think I'm willing to hear they take
little initiative in solving important
problems because they're afraid I'll
disagree with them When leaders face
difference or what feels like kissing up
they typically make one of two mistakes
either they misdiagnose the cause fear
or they try to banish deference with a
Brash
command
misdiagnose often leaders are causing
the fear but denying it who me I don't
do a thing to make people feel
uncomfortable they haven't learned to
look they're unaware of their style
under stress despite this disclaimer the
way they carry themselves their habit of
speaking in absolutes their subtle use
of authority something out there is
creating fear and eventual deference
then there's the other misdiagnosis
leading who face head bobbing kiss UPS
often think they're doing something
wrong when in fact they're living with
ghosts of previous leaders they do their
best to be open and supportive and to
involve people but despite their genuine
efforts people still keep their distance
often people treat their leaders like
celebrities or dictators regardless of
the fact that they've done nothing to
deserve it before you do anything you
need to find out if you're the cause if
you're living with ghosts of boss's past
or both command it away many leaders
seek the simple path they tell people to
stop deferring it seems to me that
you're agreeing with me because I'm the
boss and not because what I'm saying
makes sense
absolutely I prefer that you stop
deferring to me and simply listen to the
idea okay whatever you say boss with
ingrained deference you face a catch 22
if you don't say something it'll
probably continue if you do say
something you may be inadvertently
encouraging it to continue
the solution work on me first discover
your part in the problem don't ask your
direct reports if they're already
deferring to you they'll whitewash the
problem consult with a peer who watches
you in action ask for honest feedback
are you doing things that cause people
to defer to you if so what explore your
peer path by having him or her point out
your specific behaviors jointly develop
a plan of attack work on it and seek
continued feedback if the problem stems
from ghosts the actions of previous
leaders go public describe the problem
in a group or team meeting and then ask
for advice don't try to command it away
you can't reward risk-takers encourage
testing when people do Express an
opinion contrary to yours thank them for
their honesty play Devil's Advocate if
you can't get others to disagree then
disagree with yourself let people know
that all ideas are open to question if
you need to leave the room give people
some breathing
space failed trust I don't know what to
do I'm not sure I can trust this person
he missed an important deadline now I
wonder if I should trust him
again people often assume that trust is
something you have or don't have either
you trust someone or you don't that puts
too much pressure on trust what do you
mean I can't stay out past midnight
don't you trust me your teenage son
inquires trust doesn't have to be
universally offered in truth it's
usually offered in degrees and is very
topic specific it also comes in two
flavors motive and ability for example
you can trust me to administer CPR if
needed I'm motivated but you can't trust
me to do a good job I know nothing about
it the solution deal with trust around
the issue not around the person when it
comes to regaining trust in others don't
set the bar too high just try to trust
them in the moment not across all issues
you don't have to trust them in
everything to make it safe for yourself
in the moment bring up your concerns
tentatively State what you see happening
I get the sense that you're only sharing
the good side of your plan I need to
hear the possible risks before I'm
comfortable is that okay if they play
games call them on it also don't use
your mistrust as a club to punish people
if they've earned your mistrust in one
area Don't Let It Bleed over into your
overall perception of their character
character if you tell yourself a villain
story that exaggerates others
untrustworthiness you'll act in ways
that help them justify themselves in
being even less worthy of your trust
you'll start up a self-defeating cycle
and get more of what you don't
want won't talk about anything
serious my spouse is the person you
talked about earlier you know I try to
hold a meaningful discussion I try to
work through an important problem and he
or she simply withdraws what can I do
it's common to blame others for not
wanting to stay in dialogue as if it
were some kind of genetic disorder
that's not the problem if others don't
want to talk about tough issues it's
because they believe that it won't do
any good either they aren't good at
dialogue or you aren't or you both
aren't or so they think the solution
work on me first your spouse may have an
aversion to all crucial conversations
even when talking to a skilled person
nevertheless you're still the only
person you can work on start with simple
challenges don't go for the really tough
issues do your best to make it safe
constantly watch to see when your spouse
starts to become uncomfortable use
tentative language separate intent from
outcome I'm pretty sure you're not
intending to if your spouse consistently
seems unwilling to talk about his or her
personal issues learn how to explore
others paths practice these skills every
chance you get in short start simply and
then bring all your dialogue tools into
play now having said all of this
exercise patience don't nag don't lose
hope and then go to violence every time
you become aggressive or insulting you
give your spouse additional evidence
that crucial conversations do nothing
but cause harm if you're constantly on
your best dialogue Behavior you'll build
more safety in the relationship and your
spouse will be more likely to begin
picking up on the cues and start coming
around when you see signs of improvement
movement you can accelerate the growth
by inviting your spouse to talk with you
about how you talk your challenge here
is to build safety by establishing a
compelling Mutual purpose you need to
help your partner see a reason for
having this conversation a reason that
is so compelling that he or she will be
willing to take part share what you
think the consequences of having or not
having this conversation could be both
positive and negative explain what it
means to both you and the relationship
then invite your spouse to help identify
the topics you have a hard time
discussing take turns describing how you
both tend to approach these topics then
discuss the possible benefits of helping
each other make
improvements sometimes if you can't talk
about the tough topics you can more
easily talk about how you talk or don't
talk about them that helps get things
started vague but
Annoying the person I'm thinking of
doesn't do blatantly unacceptable things
nothing to write home about just subtle
stuff that's starting to drive me
crazy if people simply bother you at
some abstract level maybe what they're
doing isn't worthy of a conversation
perhaps the problem is not their
behavior but your tolerance for example
an executive laments my employees really
disappoint me just look at the length of
their hair it turns out that the
employees in question have no contact
with anyone besides one another their
hair length has nothing to do with job
performance the boss really has has no
reason to say
anything however when actions are both
subtle and unacceptable then you have to
retrace your path to action and put your
finger on exactly what others are doing
or you have nothing to discuss abstract
descriptions peppered with your vague
conclusions or stories have no place in
crucial conversations for example
whenever your family gets together your
brother constantly takes pot shots at
everyone else using sarcastic humor the
individual comments aren't directly
insulting enough to discuss what you
want to talk about is the fact that
these constant comments make every get
together feel negative remember
clarifying the facts is the homework
required for crucial conversations the
solution retrace your path to action to
its source identify specific behaviors
that are out of bounds and take note
when you've done your homework consider
the behaviors you noted and make sure
the story you're telling yourself about
these behaviors is important enough for
dialogue if it is then make it safe and
state your path shows no
initiative some members of my work team
do what they're asked but no more if
they run into a problem they take one
simple stab at fixing it but if their
efforts don't pay off they
quit most people are far more likely to
talk about the presence of a bad
behavior than the absence of a good one
when someone really messes up leaders
and parents alike are compelled to take
action however when people simply fail
to be excellent It's hard to know what
to say the
solution establish new and higher
expectations don't deal with a specific
instance deal with the overall pattern
if you want someone to show more
initiative tell him or her give specific
examples of when the person ran into a
barrier and then backed off after a
single try raise the bar and then make
it Crystal Clear what you've done
jointly brainstorm what the person could
have done to be both more persistent and
more creative in coming up with a
solution for instance I asked you to
finish up a task that absolutely had to
be completed before I returned from a
trip you ran into a problem tried to get
in touch with me and then simply left a
message with my four-year-old what could
you have done to track me down on the
road or what would it have taken to
create a backup strategy pay attention
to ways you are compensating for
someone's lack of initiative have you
made yourself responsible for following
up if so talk with that person about
assuming this responsibility have you
asked more than one person to take the
same assignment so you can be sure it
will get done if so talk to the person
originally assigned about reporting
progress to you early so you only need
to put someone else on the job when
there's a clear need for more resources
stop acting out your expectations that
others won't take initiative instead
talk your expectations out and come to
agreements that place the responsibility
on the team members while giving you
information early in enough that you
aren't left high and dry shows a pattern
it isn't a single problem it's that I
keep having to talk with people about
the same problem I feel like I have to
choose between being a nag and putting
up with the problem now
what some crucial conversations go
poorly because you're having the wrong
conversations you talk to someone who is
late for a meeting for the second time
then the third your blood begins to boil
then you bite your lip and give another
gentle reminder finally after after your
resentment builds up because you're
telling yourself an ugly story you
become violent you make a sarcastic or
cut Antion scene and then end up looking
stupid because the reaction if you
continue to return to the original
problem coming in late without talking
about the new problem failing to live up
to commitments you're stuck in Groundhog
Day we talk about this problem using the
Groundhog Day movie metaphor if you
return to the same initial problem
you're like Bill Murray in the movie
you're forced to relive the same
situation over and over over rather than
deal with the bigger problem nothing
ever gets
resolved the
solution learn to look for patterns
don't Focus exclusively on a single
event watch for Behavior over time then
State your path by talking about the
pattern for example if a person is late
for meetings and agrees to do better the
next conversation should not be about
tardiness it should be about his or her
failure to keep a commitment this is a
bigger issue it's now about trust and
respect
people often become far more emotional
than the issue they're discussing
warrants because they're talking about
the wrong issue if you're really
bothered because of a pattern but you're
talking about this latest instance your
emotions will seem out of proportion in
contrast an interesting thing happens
when you hold the right conversation
your emotions calm down when you talk
about what's really eating you the
pattern you'll be able to be more
composed and effective don't get pulled
into any one instance or your concern
will seem trivial talk about the overall
pattern I need time to calm down I've
been told that I should never go to bed
angry is that always a good
idea once you've become angry it's not
always easy to calm down you've told
yourself an ugly story your body has
responded by preparing for a fight and
now you're trying your best not to Duke
it out only your body hasn't caught up
with your brain so what do you do do you
try to stay in dialogue even though your
intuition tells you you to back off and
buy some time after all mom said never
go to bed
angry the
solution okay so your mom wasn't exactly
right she was right by suggesting that
you shouldn't let serious problems go
unresolved she was wrong about always
sticking with a discussion no matter
your emotional state it's perfectly okay
to suggest that you need some time alone
and that you'd like to pick up the
discussion later on say
tomorrow then after you've dissipated
the adrenaline and have had time to
think about the issues hold the
conversation coming to mutual agreement
to take a time out is not the same thing
is going to silence in fact it's a very
healthy example of dialogue as a side
note on this topic it's not such a good
idea to tell others that they need to
calm down or that they need to take some
time out they may need the time but it's
hard to suggest it without coming off as
patronizing take 10 minutes calm down
and then get back to me with others get
back to the source of their anger
retrace their path to
action endless excuses my teenage son is
a master of excuses I talk to him about
a problem and he's always got a new
reason why it's not his
fault it's easy to be lulled into a
series of never-ending excuses
particularly if the other person doesn't
want to do what you've asked and learns
that as long as he or she can give you a
plausible reason all bets are off I go
to work before my son leaves for school
and he's constantly late first he told
me that he was late because his alarm
broke the next day the old car we bought
him had a problem or so he says then his
friend forgot to pick him up then he had
a head cold and couldn't hear his new
alarm then the solution with imaginative
people take a preemptive strike against
all new excuses gain a commitment to
solve the overall problem not simply the
stated cause for instance the first time
the person is late seek a commitment to
fix the alarm and anything else that
might stand in the way repairing the
alarm only deals with one potential
cause ask the person to deal with the
problem being late so you think that if
you get a new alarm you'll be able to
make it to school on time that's fine
with me do whatever it takes to get
there on time can I count on you being
there tomorrow at 8:00
sharp then remember as the excuses
accumulate don't talk about the most
recent excuse talk about the pattern
insubordination or over-the-line
disrespect what if the people you talk
to not only are angry but also become
insubordinate how do you handle
that when you're discussing a tough
issue with employees or even your kids
there's always the chance they'll step
over the line they'll move from a
friendly dispute to a heated discussion
and then into the nasty territory of
being insubordinate or acting
disrespectful the trouble is
insubordination is so rare that it takes
most leaders by surprise so they buy
time to figure out what to do and in so
doing they let the person get away with
something that was way out of line worse
still their perceived indifference makes
them an accomplice to all future abuses
parents on the other hand caught by
surprise tend to respond in kind
becoming angry and
insulting the solution show zero
tolerance for insubordination speak up
immediately but respectfully change
topics from the ISS at hand to how the
person is currently acting catch the
escalating disrespect before it turns
into abuse and insubordination let the
person know that his or her passion for
the issue at hand is leading down a
dangerous Trail I'd like to step away
from this scheduling issue for a moment
then we'll come right back to it the way
you're leaning in toward me and raising
your voice seems disrespectful I want to
help address your concerns but I'm going
to have a tough time doing so if this
continues if you can't catch it early
disc discuss the insubordination and
seek help from HR
Specialists regretting saying something
horrible sometimes I let a problem go
for a long time and then when I bring it
up I say something just awful how do I
recover from
this when other people do things that
bother us and then we tell ourselves a
story about how they're bad and wrong
we're setting ourselves up for an
unhealthy conversation of course when we
tell ourselves an ugly story and then
sit on it it only gets worse
stories left unattended don't get better
with time they ferment then when we
eventually can't take it anymore we say
something we
regret the
solution first don't repress your story
use your state skills early on before
the story turns too ugly second if you
have let the problem build don't hold
the crucial conversation while angry set
aside a time when you can discuss it in
a calm fashion then using your state
skills explain what you've seen and
heard and tentatively tell the most
simple and least offensive Story the way
you just told me that our neighbor
thinks I'm a real idiot has me worried
you smiled and laughed when you said it
I'm beginning to wonder if you take
pleasure in running to me with negative
feedback is that what's going on if you
do say something horrible you're cruel
you know that you love to hurt me and
I'm sick of it apologize you can't
unring the Bell but you can apologize
then State your p math touchy and
personal what if someone has a hygiene
problem or maybe someone's boring and
people avoid him or her how could you
ever talk about something personal and
sensitive like
that most people avoid sensitive issues
like the plague who can blame them
unfortunately when fear and misapplied
compassion rule over honesty and courage
people can go for years without being
given information that could be
extremely helpful when people do speak
up they often leap from Silence to
violence jokes nicknames and other
veiled attempts to sneak in vague
feedback are both indirect and
disrespectful also the longer you go
without saying anything the greater the
pain when you finally deliver the
message the solution use contrasting
explain that you don't want to hurt the
person's feelings but you do want to
share something that could be helpful
establish Mutual purpose let the other
person know your intentions are
honorable also explain that you're
reluctant to bring up the issue because
of its personal nature but since the
problem is interfering with the person's
Effectiveness you really must
tentatively describe the problem don't
play it up or pile it on describe the
specific behaviors and then move to
Solutions although these discussions are
never easy they certainly don't have to
be offensive or
insulting word games my children are
constantly playing word games if I try
to tell them that they shouldn't have
done something they say I never told
them exactly that they're starting to
get on my
nerves sometimes parents and leaders are
tricked into accepting poor performance
by silver tonged individuals who are
infinitely creative in coming up with
new ways to explain why they didn't know
any better not only do these inventive
people have the ability to conjure up
creative excuses but they also have the
energy and will to do so incessantly
eventually they wear you down as a
result they get with doing less or doing
it poorly while hardworking energetic
family members or employees end up
carrying an unfair share of the
load the solution this is another case
of pattern over instance tentatively
State the pattern of splitting hairs and
playing word games let them know they
aren't fooling anyone in this case don't
Focus exclusively on actions because
creative people can always find new
inappropriate actions you didn't say I
couldn't call her stupid talk about both
behaviors and outcomes you're hurting
your sister's feelings when you call her
stupid please don't do that or anything
else that might hurt her feelings use
previous Behavior as an example and then
hold them accountable to results don't
get pulled into discussing any one
instance stick with the
pattern no warning I've got a lot of
good people working for me but they're
too full of surprises when they run into
problems I only find out after it's too
late they always have a good excuse so
what should I
do leaders who are constantly being
surprised allow it to happen the first
time an employee says sorry but I ran
into a problem the leaders miss the
point they listen to the problem work on
it and then move on to a new topic in so
doing they are saying it's okay to
surprise me if you have a legitimate
excuse stop what you're doing turn your
efforts to something else and then wait
until I show up to Spring the news the
solution make it perfectly clear that
once you've given an assignment there
are only two acceptable paths employees
need to complete the assignment as
planned or if they run into a problem
they need to immediately inform you no
surprises similarly if they decide that
another job needs to be done instead
they call you no surprises clarify the
no surprises rule the first time someone
comes back with a legitimate excuse but
he or she didn't tell you when the
problem first came up deal with this as
the new problem we agreed that you'd let
me know immediately I didn't get a call
what
happened dealing with someone who breaks
all the
rules what if the person you're dealing
with violates all of the dialogue
principles most of the time especially
during crucial
conversations when you look at a
Continuum of dialogue skills most of us
by definition fall in the middle
sometimes we're on and sometimes we're
off some of us are good at avoiding
sucker choices others are good at making
it safe of course you have the the
extremes as well you have people who are
veritable conversational Geniuses and
now you're saying that you work with
maybe live with someone who is the
complete opposite he or she rarely uses
any skills what's a person to
do the danger of course is that the
other person isn't as bad as you think
you bring out the worst in him or her or
that he or she really is that bad and
you try to address all the problems at
once the solution let's assume this
person is pretty bad all of the time and
with most everyone where do you start
let's apply a metaphor here how do you
eat an elephant one bite at a time
choose your targets very carefully
consider two Dimensions one what bothers
you the most he or she is constantly
assuming the worst and telling horrible
stories two what might be the easiest to
work on he or she rarely shows any
appreciation look for those areas that
are most Grievous to you and might not
be all that hard to talk about pick one
element and work on it establish Mutual
purpose frame the conversation in a way
that the other person will care about I
love it when we're feeling friendly
toward each other I'd like to have that
feeling more frequently between us there
are a couple of things I'd like to talk
about that I'm pretty convinced would
help us with that can we talk State the
issue and then work on that one issue
don't nag don't take on everything at
once deal with one element one day at a
time chapter
12 Change Your Life how to turn ideas
into
habits one day you overhear yourself
enthusiastically talking about a
professional wrestling match you're
speaking with such Gusto that you give
yourself the Willies you think to
yourself you know what it's time to
expand my cultural Horizons so you vow
to read more widely and to watch three
programs on the Science Channel for
every episode of reality TV while you're
at it you commit to trimming down a bit
as well a reasonable diet and moderate
exercise program couldn't hurt to top it
all off you knowe that you're nearly
consumed with your work so you swear to
spend more time with your family more
culture Better Health a stronger family
certainly you'll quickly transform such
worthy desires into daily habits hardly
changes of this sort are rarely easy
when it comes to turning our wispy hopes
into concrete realities
our success rate is mixed at best this
being the case what are our chances of
improving something is deeply rooted in
our psyches as the way we
communicate actually it depends there
are a lot of variables that affect our
chances consider the following
factors
surprise you've been asked to conduct
your first meeting to avoid embarrassing
yourself you read a book where you learn
all about agendas pacing and the like
when it's time to lead your first
meeting you arrive early adjust the
chairs set the markers just so and lay
out an agenda for each participant as
participants arrive you greet them
cordially then you kick off the meeting
with a rousing Icebreaker and you're of
and
running implementing meeting skills is
as easy as falling off a log that's
because meetings are evident you know
when you're in one you're seated at a
table along with a bunch of other people
how could you not know you're in a
meeting they're also predictable you can
plan for them you even have time to go
over underlined portions from the book
crucial conversations in contrast are
far less evident you don't sit in a
crucial conversations room you don't
pass around a picture of your path to
action instead you get thrown into a
heated discussion where you rarely think
oh yes I'm in the middle of a crucial
conversation that means I need to think
about all that stuff I read last week
discussions are also less predictable
nobody sends you an invitation stating
would you please engage me in a crew
crucial conversation next week after the
team meeting where you're going to make
a policy that will myth me high-risk
discussions don't come with notices and
reminders more often than not they come
as unwelcome
surprises emotion emotions don't help
much either and of course crucial
conversations are defined by their
emotional characteristics your ability
to pull yourself out of the content of a
discussion and to focus on the process
is inversely proportional to your level
of emotion the more you care about
what's happening the less likely you are
to think about how you're conducting
yourself it's almost unfair the bigger
the deal the less likely you are to
bring your newly acquired skill set into
the conversation like it or not if your
adrenaline is Flowing you're almost
guaranteed to jump to your style under
stress between surprise and emotion it's
hard to know which is the bigger enemy
of change both make it hard to remember
to act in new
ways scripts now let's look at still
another enemy of change scripts scripts
are pre-bundled phrases we use in common
conversations they form the very
Foundation of social habits and often
make change almost impossible consider
the following when we learn to speak
first come words then phrases and then
scripts the larger the bundles of words
we carry around the less we have to
worry about combining them into sensible
Expressions also the less we have to
fret over syntax or grammar that work
has already been done for us
unfortunately predetermined Expressions
also put us into a sort of mental
autopilot consider what happens when you
walk into a fast food restaurant do you
think about the words you'll choose
probably not that's because when you
enter familiar circumstances you're
carrying not only words and phrases but
an entire script in your head with a
script you know both sides of the
conversation you know that the person at
the counter is going to ask for your
order you're certain that the perky
young woman woman with the paper hat is
going to ask you if you want fries even
if you include fries in your original
request she's still going to ask do you
want fries with that and if you say yes
you can bet the farm that she's going to
ask do you want to supersize that the
good news about packing around scripts
is that you don't have to give
conversation much thought the bad news
is that the more scripted an interaction
the more difficult it is to pull
yourself out of the routine and try
something new for example as you walk up
to a fast food counter your spouse
reminds you to ask for extra ketchup you
step up to the counter and say I'll have
two house specials three Kitty Delights
and then you slip into autopilot the
words that pour out of your mouth have
no relation to your thoughts your brain
is somewhere else entirely your musing
over a menu that Sports a sandwich made
out of ribs that have no bones what poor
animal has boneless ribs you're thinking
to yourself and guess what as you
robotically State your order one word
spilling out after another you forget to
ask for extra ketchup what do you expect
from a person who's devoting no real
brain time to the interaction in fact
your spouse's request never even makes
it onto your radar screen which is
currently filled with images of Jell-O
likee ribless creatures mooing and
slithering across a backdrop painted by
Salvador
Dolly scripts Place us on a smooth and
familiar track they take us across known
territory and at a comfortable Pace
freeing our brains for more novel work
but then again when we're on Rails we
travel along the prescribed route with
such finesse and ease that it's almost
impossible to make an unscheduled
turn what are our chances so let's see
what we're facing when we try to change
our style under stress tough
conversations come at us out of nowhere
fill us with adrenaline and evoke
comfortable but not necessarily good
routines they are spontaneous emotional
and backed by years of practice
consequently when you examine people
working through crucial cont
conversations they look a lot more like
racehorses charging out of the gate than
human beings making choices
conversationalists are shocked into
motion by surprise whipped up to speed
by high stakes and strong emotions and
propelled along a completely predictable
course by scripts that offer few if any
options transfer tips given the
challenges of altering routine scripts
can people actually change early in our
research we the authors once examined 48
Frontline supervisors who were learning
how to hold crucial conversations as we
watched the trainees back at work it
became clear to us that only a few of
them transferred what they had learned
in the classroom back to their work site
the bad news is that most of them didn't
change an Iota the good news is that
some of them did in fact they used the
new skills precisely as instructed the
supervisors who found a way to apply the
new skills taught us the following four
principles for turning ideas into action
first Master the content that means not
only do you have to be able to recognize
what works and why but you have to
generate new scripts of your own second
master the skills you must be able to
enact these new scripts in a way that is
consistent with the supporting
principles as it turns out Simply
understanding a concept isn't enough
while it's helpful even necessary to
talk the talk you have to be able to
walk the talk you have to be able to say
the right words with the right tone and
non-verbal actions when it comes to
social skills knowing and doing are two
different animals third enhance your
motive you must want to change this
means that you have to care enough about
improving your crucial conversation
skills to actually do something you have
to move from a passive sense that it
would be a good idea to change to an
active desire to seek
opportunities ability without motive
lies dormant and untapped Fourth Watch
for cues to overcome surprise emotion
and scripts you must recognize the call
to action this is usually people's
biggest obstacle to change old stimuli
generate old responses if a problem
doesn't cue your new skills you'll
return to your old habits without even
realizing you missed a chance to try
something new there's too much material
in this book to try to master in one
sitting despite the fact that you may
have listened to this book rather
quickly a rapid once over rarely
generates much of a change in Behavior
you may have a feel for the content but
probably not enough to propel you to
change here are some other steps you can
take to help Master the content do
something years ago Dale Carnegie
recommended that you read his now
classic How to Win Friends and Influence
People one chapter at a time then once
you finished the chapter he suggested
you go out and practice what you learned
from it we agree pick a chapter you
found relevant and listen to it it again
this time Implement what you learned
over a 3 to 5day period look for
opportunities pounce on every chance you
get step up to the plate and give the
skills a try then pick another chapter
and repeat the
process discuss the material when you
first learn something your knowledge is
preverbal that is you might recognize
the concepts if you see them but you're
not able to discuss them with ease you
haven't talked about them enough to make
them part of your functional vocabulary
you haven't turned the word into phrases
and the phrases into scripts to move
your knowledge to the next level listen
to a chapter and then discuss it with a
friend or loved one talk about the
material until the concepts come
naturally teach the material if you
really want to master a concept teach it
to someone else stick with it until the
other person understands the concept
well enough to pass it on to someone
else master the
skills there's a story going around the
self-help talk circuit about a Vietnam
War prisoner who played golf in his head
in order to help maintain his sanity
he'd mentally step up to each hole at
his favorite golf course and play an
entire round after being released he
eventually found his way to the course
where he promptly shot his best score
ever one under par when his friends
acted astonished at his Newfound Talent
he explained why shouldn't I have shot
under par I never once shot over par
while I was in
prison this tale is routinely used to
teach the power of mental preparation
gurus can't say enough about the power
of the mental game while we agree that
thinking is an essential part of the
process we'd like to emphasize the
greater importance of doing evidence
suggests that mental preparation can
make some difference in execution but
thinking isn't enough if you really want
to improve your ability practice step up
to problems and give the material a
try enhance your motive we all have
ideas about how to motivate others but
how do you motivate yourself while you
may feel 100% committed to improving
your crucial conversations right now
what can you do when you're staring at
an angry coworker and your commitment to
Improvement drops to say
10% the truth is that we often need to
take steps to ensure that our most
well-founded wishes those made during
peaceful moments when we're taking an
honest look at the future survive
turbulent less forward-looking
circumstances
start with the obvious use incentives
for example people going through
self-help courses are often encouraged
to put their money where their mouth is
every time they fulfill an assignment
they're given back a portion of their
tuition on the other hand if they don't
step up it costs them when incentives
are added results improve fairly
dramatically so every time you deafly
hold a crucial conversation celebrate
your Victory treat yourself to something
you wouldn't otherwise enjoy and don't
wait for perfection celebrate
Improvement if you used to get in a
heated argument every time you brought
up a certain problem and now the
interaction is merely tense enjoy the
victory self-improvement is achieved by
individuals who appreciate Direction
More than those who demand
Perfection you might consider
disincentives as well take a look at
what went on at Stanford a few years
back subjects who were trying to lose
weight were asked to write a donation
check to an organization they despised
these checks were then set aside never
to be mailed unless the subjects failed
to live up to their goals at which point
$500 was sent to Americans for nuclear
proliferation or something equally
distasteful to the subject as predicted
subjects did better when they used
disincentives let others know that
you're trying to routinely hold crucial
conversations explain what you're doing
and why over half a century ago Dr Kurt
Leen the father of social psychology
looked learned that when subjects made a
public commitment to do something they
were more likely to stay the course than
if they kept their wishes to themselves
tell people what your goals are get
social pressure working in your
favor if you want to take it a step
further sit down with your boss and
explain your goals ask for his or her
support if you want to put some real
teeth into your goal build your plan
into your performance review as a leader
you're almost always asked to pick one
soft area listed on your performance
review forms and work on it select
dialogue you might as well tie your
plans for improvement into the formal
reward system align your personal family
and organizational goals to a single
goal improving your dialogue
skills remember the costs focus on the
reward perhaps the most predictive piece
of social science research ever
conducted was completed with small
children and
marshmallows a child was put in a room
and then told told that he or she could
have either one marshmallow now or two
if he or she was willing to wait until
the adult returned in a few minutes the
adult would then Place one marshmallow
in front of the child and exit some of
the children delayed gratification
others ate the marshmallow right away
researchers continued studying these
children over the next several decades
the children who had delayed
gratification ended up doing far better
in life than those who hadn't they had
stronger marriages made more money and
were healthier this willingness to do
without now in order to achieve more
later turns out to be an all-purpose
tool for Success how did the children
who were able to delay gratification
fight off their short-term wishes first
they looked away from the scrumptious
marshmallow that sat in front of them no
use torturing themselves with the vision
of what they couldn't have second they
kept telling themselves that if they
waited they would get two not one what
could be
simpler as you step up to a crucial
conversation and wonder if it's really
worth trying out something new and
untested remind yourself why you're
trying new skills in the first place
focus on improved results remember what
happens when you fall back on your old
methods schedule crucial conversations
when you're feeling confident practice
beforehand take notes set up your office
the way you would like armed with smart
timing and material support you're far
more likely to step up to tough problems
effectively
a parting thought we'll be forever
indebted to the wonderful people who
allowed us to roll up our sleeves work
side by side with them and study their
best practices we're particularly
grateful to individuals who allowed us
to watch them as they struggled to work
through crucial conversations it's hard
enough to sort out facts stories and
feelings without being scrutinized under
a microscope while you're doing it we
hope that by sharing the theories skills
and models we've learned from these dear
friends and colleagues will help you
feel more comfortable stepping up to
your own crucial conversations you'll be
able to add to the pool of available
meaning make better decisions and work
in a way that both gets the job done and
enhances your
relationships so we encourage you to
pick a relationship pick a conversation
let others know that you're trying to do
better then give it a shot when you blow
it admit it don't expect Perfection aim
for progress and when you succeed
celebrate your success we hope you'll
take pleasure in knowing that you're
improving and so are your
relationships finally when the chance
arises help others do the same help
friends loved ones and co-workers learn
to master their own high stakes
discussions help strengthen
organizations solidify families heal
communities and Shore up Nations one
person one crucial conversation at a
time this is Anna fields for McGraw Hill
audio thank you for listening this audio
book is co-published by American Media
International and Redwood audio books
and is based upon the book entitled
crucial conversations by Carrie
Patterson Joseph granny Ron McMillan and
Al switzler copyrighted in 2002 in the
names of Carrie Patterson Joseph grenny
Ron McMillan and Al switzler All Rights
Reserved published by arrangement with
the mcra hill
compan thank you so much for tuning into
this audiobook if you enjoyed consider
subscribing to the channel for more